The market wants to be positive.
>> This is a market that is ready to rip.
>> We are long the equity market and
comfortable with the way the market's
behaving.
>> Heightened geopolitical risk, but also
bullish markets. That is the prevailing
mood right now.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Ferro, Lisa Abramowicz, and
Anne Marie Hoardern.
Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning, good morning for our
audience worldwide. Bloomberg
Surveillance starts right now. Coming
into Monday following a weekend of
confusion. The US and Iran deadlocked
heading into this week's ceasefire
deadline. Renewed tensions through the
Strait of Hormuz sending oil prices
higher and tapping the brakes on a
static record-breaking stock market run.
Futures inching lower this morning.
Inching the keyword and I think that
that's a really important distinction.
The idea that you see a 4/10 of a
percent decline in futures after the
best weekly gain on the S&P 500 going
back to May of 2025. A question of just
how much bad news this market is willing
to shrug off. Yes, you're seeing a
little bit of a retracement of what we
saw on Friday, but in general you are
just so not seeing a significant
response from bonds and from equities.
>> We do see the market moving on Friday.
It was whipsaw, but the facts on the
ground still this morning have not
changed and I would argue actually the
tensions have gotten worse this weekend.
We had the United States Navy fire upon
and board an Iranian flagged vessel that
have not happened since the start of
this blockade. The IRGC says they're not
allowing any vessels through and then
the ceasefire is going to end in two
days. And at this moment there's no
confirmation and I spoke to a Pakistani
official earlier this morning. No
confirmation just yet that the Iranians
are showing up to Islamabad.
>> So let's talk about that deadline. That
deadline is likely on this week. What's
more likely? An extension of the
ceasefire or a resumption of
hostilities? This market is leaning
towards the former and not the latter.
>> They just expect there to be a
resumption of hostilities. There There's
is a better than 60% chance based into
prediction markets that this will all be
tied up and you'll have an open Strait
of Hormuz by the end of May even though
we're getting closer to a hot war. There
was a great gift for GIF online where it
was saying that you know, open, closed,
open, closed with the Strait of Hormuz
and that's kind of how it feels and the
market is just tuning it out.
>> is just not pricing an extended shock.
Deutsche Bank put out a brilliant piece
on that earlier on this morning. This
market, the equity market is anchored to
the outlook for earnings from a handful
of the biggest companies on the planet
and that's really driving this relief
rally over the last several weeks.
>> Especially technology stocks and
suddenly people are coming around to
feel like, oh my goodness, things look
cheap now given the fact that there was
a 13-day retracement so we can pile back
in given all of the investment that
keeps on coming. It's not just the big
tech names so we've seen a better
earnings from banks, we've heard better
earnings from even consumer
discretionary. So at what point does
that get torpedoed by some of what we
see and right now people are saying it's
a pretty high bar.
>> Three weeks of 3% plus gains in this
equity market features this morning down
just 0.5%
coming up this hour. We'll catch up with
Cameron Dawson of NewEdge Wealth with
stocks pulling back from all-time highs.
Norman Roule CSIS as the US seizes an
Iranian ship and Francisco Blanch of
Bank of America on why oil prices are
priced to perfection. We'll begin this
hour with that top story. A weekend of
tension in the Middle East casting down
on planned peace talks. Our team
coverage starts right now with
Bloomberg's Tyler Cowen in Washington
and Joumanna Bercetche over in Dubai.
Joumanna, let's start with you. Just
what broke down over the weekend? Mhm.
Oh, a lot went down, John.
I would say from a lot of optimism on
Friday that perhaps you were nearing the
end of this war and a potential
breakthrough on the Strait of Hormuz, a
full reopening of the Strait of Hormuz,
things have significantly deteriorated
and not least because the IRGC are
claiming so long as the US naval
blockade is in place, they will continue
to effectively monitor and control who
has right of passage through the Strait
of Hormuz. Saturday morning, there were
reportedly
there was reported gunfire gunshots
being directed at some vessels that
attempted to pass through. Other vessels
decided to make a U-turn not make or
risk going through the straits. And then
of course this morning CENTCOM
announcing that they had seized an
Iranian linked vessel after giving them
6 hours warning a notice to turn around
which they didn't listen to. So when it
comes to the straits, I think it's fair
to say that not only is it still
effectively shut, but it is still very
dangerous for vessels looking to cross.
And why is this relevant? Because we
have a clock ticking. There is a
countdown to the end of the ceasefire.
It expires on Tuesday evening which is
Wednesday over here in the region. And
you will recall that one of the terms of
the ceasefire was a free and
unconditional opening of the strait.
That has not happened. And so far the
Iranian side are not committing to
attend these Islamabad negotiations. We
know that the US are planning on sending
a delegation. And even though there are
murmurs coming through from state TV
over the weekend that there had been
some progress of sorts throughout the
course of the negotiations over the last
couple of weeks, there still remains a
lot of differences between the two
sides. And then they've also
contested, you know, on their part that
many of the assertions that President
Trump put forward over the weekend
including that they had agreed to a
suspension of their nuclear program and
a complete abandonment of enrichment,
they have said are not terms that they
have agreed to. So when it comes to the
straits, when it comes to nuclear
ambitions, when it comes to the matter
of proxies in the region, and then
finally that question of lifting
sanctions and unfreezing assets, there's
still a lot of question marks, but at
this point we just don't know if the
Iranians are going to attend those
Islamabad talks that are set to start
tomorrow. It's all that built on that.
It's critical. What are the prospects
for a diplomatic breakthrough ahead of
that ceasefire deadline?
Well, John, the White House maintains
that diplomacy is still a viable option
at this point. White House telling us
that we are expecting Vice President
J.D. Vance alongside special envoy Steve
Witkoff and the president's son-in-law
Jared Kushner to depart for Islamabad
later tonight. But as Jumana just
outlined, Iran at this point is wavering
on whether or not it will send diplomats
to another round of these peace talks.
And the escalation this weekend is only
further threatening to derail the
process. But still, after everything we
saw from the seizure of the tanker to
Iran reimposing those restrictions in
the Strait of Hormuz, President Trump
still took to Truth Social and posted
that he thinks that there is a path
forward for progress. But he also
reiterated, importantly, that the US
stands ready to target Iranian civilian
infrastructure if a deal is not reached
by tomorrow's deadline. We also heard
from the energy secretary Christopher
Wright, who reiterated that same
message. But in an interview, John, over
the weekend, he said that he does think
that it is potential that we could see a
a breakthrough for a deal within the
next few weeks. In his words, at this
point, we're going to have to wait to
see where this ultimately goes. Because
as we're discussing, we're also getting
mixed
mixed signals from the other side.
Iran's foreign minister at this point
not committing to sending people. But we
should point out, on Iranian state TV,
we heard from the country's president
indicating that they also don't want to
see a resumption to the fighting. Well,
Mike Santoli, alongside Jumana Passant,
Jumana, thank you. Let's build on this.
The view on Wall Street looks like this.
Cameron Dawson of New Edge Wealth
writing, "If you look through the
narrative, the economic data, the
breadth, there are plenty of things to
like about this market." Cameron joins
us now for more. Cameron, good morning.
>> Good morning.
>> That's a big question. What is there to
like right now? Yeah, I think it's two
main things. One is leadership. There
has been a very cyclical pro-risk on
leadership that we've seen in this
rally, which of course is encouraging.
Things like equal weight discretionary
versus staples outperforming, transports
outperforming. You also like
positioning, and we think that this has
been the key reason why we've seen such
a powerful rally. You went from being
deeply underweight just a couple weeks
ago to very rapidly back up to neutral,
and that kind of buying power has really
been the fuel for why we've seen markets
move up so far, so fast. I think some of
that is now behind us, which means we're
far more sensitive to incoming news,
meaning we need good news in the Middle
East in order for this to continue. But,
it certainly was a very powerful rally
just because people got so very
underweight back in the swoon in March.
>> It's hard to say we got good news over
the weekend. We came into this week at
all-time highs and a massive powerful
rally, and we're down just 0.4%
on the S&P. What is the signal you take
from the reaction this morning? Yeah, it
is very surprising that you're seeing
such a muted reaction after you saw
markets get so very overbought. So, we
think that there is still a lot of hope
and optimism in this market and the
based on the fact that you're still
trading at 20 times forward earnings
with 17% earnings growth priced in for
this year. But, I think it's important
to note so much of that earnings growth
is coming from an incredibly small
cohort of names. In the first quarter of
this year, 50% of the earnings growth is
coming from just two names, Micron and
Nvidia, which is absolutely incredible.
And if you roll that forward to the the
entirety of 2026, an entire third of the
the earnings growth is coming from just
those two names. So, this is really a
message about idiosyncratic growth
coming from this market, not necessarily
something that's much more broad-based.
>> And that's being reflected in the
longest streak of gains for the Nasdaq
going back to 1992. We're talking about
13 consecutive days. Do you think that
that can last given that a a of the big
tech names had not kept up even with
this kind of trajectory for earnings
growth. So much of this rally lasting
really depends on if valuations can get
back up to their prior peaks. And I
think you have to think about it in two
major cohorts. The first one is the
semiconductors. Semiconductors are very
cyclical companies, meaning they trade
with countercyclical multiples. You put
the lowest multiple on the highest
earnings. Earnings for the SOX are going
to grow 100% this year. What's the right
multiple to put on those earnings that
are certainly going to slow in 2027.
Then the question is with the mag seven
names, which are such a large portion of
the of the NASDAQ. You have there where
you've seen a big deterioration in the
free cash flow generation. Free cash
flow for the last two years is down 30%
for the mag seven, while earnings are up
40%. So the question there is do you are
you really able to get back up to prior
peak valuations for the mag seven given
the fact that the quality of those
earnings is so much worse than it was
because of this CapEx.
>> It's refreshing to talk about this and
not what if it gets open, what if it
gets closed, which is essentially where
people are at and what does the central
bank do? And ultimately how much has the
rally and the sort of relief that you've
seen in markets get driven by the fact
that central banks seem to have
de-emphasized hiking in response to
inflation coming from this this
conflict.
>> Falling bond market volatility is a
really important driver of liquidity for
markets. So the fact that you've seen
the move index come down as you've seen
10-year Treasury yields and 2-year
Treasury yields moderate given the fact
that oil prices have moderated have
certainly been a boost for this market.
I think at the end of the day though, we
are out of the era where we are getting
good news cuts. We think that over the
last two years you've been in an
environment where the Fed was able to
cut rates because you were in a
moderating inflation environment without
having to see a concomitant
deterioration in the employment side of
things. But given the fact that
inflation is likely to continue to run
hotter than their target, it just
suggests that the next rate cuts from
the Fed likely have to come with sharper
deterioration in the labor market, which
just means that they're not as good news
of cuts. And what happens to consumer
spending? Over the weekend, there was a
poll and about 2/3 of Americans are
saying that higher gas prices have been
a problem for them and their families.
Does this mean it's going to be
basically less spending for consumers
have for discretionary goods? If you
look at the January and February real
wage growth, it was nearly flat. And if
you remove transfer patient payments, it
was negative, which just suggests that
there is absolutely zero room for
consumers to be able to absorb higher
prices. You also have a savings rate
that's also very low, which just means
that consumers are operating out of very
razor-thin margin. So, these higher oil
prices are likely to weigh on spending.
We get retail sales this week, and on
the headline, they will look great
because retail sales is a nominal
number. But, if you start stripping out
autos and gas, it's likely for March
that you're going to see more
deterioration or much more of a slowdown
simply because of that razor-thin margin
that consumers have with both real wage
growth as well as savings. Cameron, so
what's going to catch up? Thanks for
being here. Cameron Dawson there at
NewEdge Wealth, looking ahead to retail
sales a little bit later this week.
Looking ahead to next week, we get some
stunning earnings. Amazon, Microsoft,
Meta, and Alphabet all coming up next
Wednesday. Key question for me, and I'm
sure it's for you as well. A question
here about just going forward, how much
they're going to keep spending. In just
a moment, we'll have more on the war in
the Middle East, and we'll get you up to
speed on Norman Roule's latest views
from CSIS. Live from New York City,
you're watching Bloomberg TV.
Let's just take a and check out this
market. What a run we've seen over the
last month or so, a 13-day stretch of
gains on the Nasdaq 100, the longest
since 2013.
Your equity market this morning down
just 0.4% on the S&P 500, on the Nasdaq
down by 0.4%, on the Russell down by
0.8. All three closing at all-time highs
going into the weekend, and it's not
just about semis anymore. Software
having one of the best weeks we've seen
in quite a while. Microsoft with the
biggest weekly gain we've seen in some
10 years for Microsoft. All of that into
earnings for those big players a week
away. Yeah, and people have been saying,
"Well, it's just that the likes of
Microsoft have been so beaten up that
their uh their profits clearly outstrip
people's expectations." Earnings are
going to be really important because do
we get a sense of how much they're
willing to keep spending given the fact
that you're getting investor pushback uh
about some of the big capex plans.
People are expecting an acceleration of
spending into 2027. Can they do that if
they aren't showing the same kind of
earnings growth that they have in the
past?
>> So, the diplomatic effort on the brink
of breaking down and yet these are the
moves. Equities down by just 0.4% on the
S&P, in the commodity market a rally of
4 to 5% on WTI and Brent. WTI at $88 a
barrel, Brent crude at around 94.50.
And it's Savannah's this morning taking
a stand against Iran.
We'll be talking about Iran later. We
have very good conversations going on.
It's
It's working out very well. They
got away with you as they have been
doing for 47 years. Nobody ever took
them on. We took them on. They wanted to
close up the strait again, you know, as
they've been doing for years,
and they can't blackmail us. We're
taking a tough stand. They've gotten
away with murder for 47 years. They're
not getting away with it anymore. So,
here's the latest this morning. Iran
vowing to respond after the US seized an
Iranian ship near the Strait of Hormuz.
Norman Roule of CSIS writing neither
side wants a full regional war this
week, but neither is prepared to offer
concessions that would allow the other
to emerge as the clear victor in the
struggle over the Strait. Norman joins
us now for more. Norman, welcome to the
program. That ceasefire deadline days
away. In your opinion and for you
yourself right now, what are you focused
on as we approach that deadline?
Well, although the Iranians have not yet
confirmed that they will attend this
evening, the fact that the Vice
President Vance and Jared Kushner and
Steve Witkoff are still planning on
attending indicates that the United
States must have pretty good reason to
believe that the talks will take place.
That's no small thing. So, the
indications are that there will be
talks. The United States must believe
that the talks will be fruitful they
would not have put in such a significant
effort. This said, the last 72 hours
have produced such a series of
significant events in the region that it
shows that the Strait of Hormuz itself
will remain the focal point for not only
the talks, but it is now part of the
negotiations themselves. The Strait of
Hormuz and and actions there aren't
pressure points for each side to use
against the other. Norman, is China
putting pressure on Iran to open the
Strait?
No country actually has a significant
capability to influence Iran's
decision-making. However, Iran does use
China or Pakistan or sometimes Russia as
a doorway to
go into negotiations. For example,
recall that China was a guarantor of the
Saudi
Iran security group. That didn't work
out very well, now did it? And China in
theory could have
pressured Iran to end this conflict
sometime ago. That hasn't happened. But
in theory, China could be a doorway that
Iran could use to enter into
negotiations or shift its policies. And
Iran might do that because it would see
that as undercutting US influence
globally. Well, depending on what kind
of Iran shows up to Tuesday, it's if
they do show up to these talks, it's
almost as if who's driving the
narrative. You have the political
figures like the foreign minister
putting out tweets on Friday that he
believes the straight should be open,
and then clearly a different
posture from the IRGC. Who should we be
paying attention to?
Well, let's take a look at that for a
moment. Now, the foreign minister has no
political base whatsoever. He is close
to the revolutionary guard, and he would
certainly not take any position to talks
unless it had been approved by the
Supreme Council for National Security,
which is dominated by former
revolutionary guard members and has
always been
taking positions that have been based on
a consensus. So, there is likely a
situation where we've watched Iran
undertake a situation over the weekend
where they have in essence laid out a
series of activities which have been
meant to show they have a capability to
open the straight if they wish. They can
close it, they can perhaps use it as a
pressure tool, but we shouldn't take
Foreign Minister Araghchi as a power
player in this in this
in this world. Now, we should look at
this
Qalibaf, who also is likely to show at
the talk, as giving a speech this week
in which he communicated to hardliners
in the hardliner base saying, "Look,
talks are just one more tool that we're
using to push back as a deterrent
against the West and Americans, but he
highlighted in the talks, we don't trust
them, and we're doing this to obtain
sanctions relief."
Norman, how can the US negotiate with
Iran if we don't have a sense of who
holds the power in Iran?
I think we have a pretty good sense of
who holds the power in Iran. It's a
consensus view of hardliners who are
generally sharing the same fabric of
decision-making, and no one would show
up to those talks unless they have
a common position. But that doesn't mean
the common position is going to be a
position that they're going to produce
an agreement. I recall that when the
talks took place with the original
nuclear agreement in 2015,
those talks also involved discussions in
Tehran, in which there were a variety of
positions as hardliners and more
pragmatic conservatives, as they were
called, debated whether or not there
should be
an agreement. Indeed, that debate took
took took up took took place up until
the very end of the talks, indeed into
the last hours of the talks, as to
whether or not that agreement was
something that was in Iran's interest.
So this is not something that is unusual
in Iranian politics. Norm, there's also
a question, Anne-Marie was alluding to
this, about the power dynamics in the
region. The US has been a hugely
important in the region, has had a huge
base there. I'm just wondering whether
you see any of the influence shifting.
Saudi Arabia has meetings and talks with
Xi Jinping. When you see the UAE also
following suit and talking about their
relationship and and considering maybe
even tightening it going forward.
Well, the relationship with China has
always been powerful on a commercial
basis. We've seen China be the number
one trading partner with the region
since about 2014. That's not going to
change. However, we've also seen the
United Arab Emirates and Saudi Arabia
reinforce in recent weeks that their
primary partner for strategic
investments will remain the United
States. And we've seen that when this
comes down to technology, this comes
down to economic agreements, I think you
should look at the Chinese
commercial agreements with with the
United Arab Emirates and Saudi Arabia
more as an example of these countries
telling Iran, "Look, we have a better
relationship with these countries and a
more important relationship than you'll
ever have. Don't think that the they
don't know it, and we're going to tell
the world that this is uh the case as
well. Um then what do you make of the
Wall Street Journal report about Emirati
officials telling the United States that
if the UAE runs short of dollars,
they're going to look elsewhere, maybe
to Beijing?
Uh I'm sorry, could you repeat the
question, please? There was a Wall
Street Journal report about how Emirati
officials, when they were there for the
IMF World Bank meetings, told the United
States that they may need help in terms
of a swap line. If they can't get US
dollars and they run low on US dollars,
they may look elsewhere for support,
like to Beijing. What's your reaction to
that?
Well, I'm not sure that's entirely the
case. I think what we're looking at is
that we're looking at a stresses on the
original economy that go beyond the uh
oil issue. We're looking at stresses
that are becoming a financial uh stress
as well. But we're seeing also that the
United Arab Emirates has come to the
United States uh
uh its currency pegged to the dollar. Uh
it's been very stable currency for
decades, and I think you're going to see
that as a as a result of the uh
uh these talks that took place last
week, this relationship becomes even
tighter, and the United States uh will
uh look to the United Arab Emirates uh
to in essence uh maintain that
relationship in a more deep in a in a
deeper fashion. But two things will come
from this. I think you'll see the United
States say to the Emirates uh how do we
build this relationship uh in terms of
banking uh supervision regarding Iran.
But at the same time, the Emirates will
come to the United States and say, "How
soon are we going to end the uh the uh
this this conflict and open up the uh
Strait of Hormuz? What is What is this
mean?" But I think you should look at
the currency swap report in the Wall
Street Journal as an indication that the
United States and the and and and the
region as a whole are going to stay
close and are getting closer. My
engagement with regional officials has
reaffirmed this in recent weeks. I know
um it's always good to get your reaction
and your educated response on things.
Thank you, sir. Norman Roule at FSIS. I
have to say from my standpoint seeing
that report, it sounded less like a
country in distress and more like a
country offering a loyalty test to a key
partner. Uh 1,000%. This idea of saying,
"Are you going to back us?" Given the
fact that reports have the UAE has
plenty of cash. It's not as though
they're actually running out of cash.
Saying, "Are you willing to be our
financial friend? And if you're not,
we'll go to check out to raise some
renminbi." And that I think was sort of
a warning shot at a time where they
would like to see this end. And they
would like to understand exactly how
much leverage they have given that their
economy has arguably been affected the
most.
>> are just joining us, welcome to the
program. Headlines crossing the
Bloomberg just moments ago that the
Chinese leader had talks with the Saudi
Crown Prince, according to a media
report. The Chinese leader saying normal
passage through the Strait of Hormuz
should be maintained. China advocating
for immediate comprehensive ceasefire,
insisting on resolving disputes through
diplomatic means. And we'll see if that
diplomatic engagement continues going
into that ceasefire deadline over the
next few days. Coming up on the program,
we'll catch up with Francisco Blanch of
Bank of America on why all markets are
priced perfection. Plus, Shuhaira drops
by with your morning movers. Marvell
shares rising on reports of a
partnership with Google. That stock is
up in the premarket by 7.4% from New
York City this morning. Good morning.
You're watching Bloomberg TV.
Five-day winning streak on the S&P.
13-day winning streak on the Nasdaq 100.
Phenomenal. Equity futures down this
morning by just 4/10 of 1% on the S&P.
On the Nasdaq, down by 0.4 also. On the
S&P, this data from the team here at
Bloomberg, more than half of the S&P
500's recent advance coming from just
seven companies. Nvidia, Amazon,
Microsoft, Broadcom, Alphabet, Meta, and
Apple taken together, adding roughly $4
trillion in market value in the matter
of weeks. So, is concentration anxiety a
good thing, a positive feature, or is it
a bug? And ultimately, increasingly,
people come on the show say it's a
feature because these companies had
gotten beaten up before and they're
actually just having a recovery trade
given their huge profitability. The
earnings are going to be the tell and
you keep pointing to it. Next week, a
key point when they come out and give a
sense of what their cash flow is like
ahead as well as what their expenditure
plans.
>> how comfortable this market is with risk
right now. Risk, specifically, coming
out of the Middle East. Crude with a
bounce, but not a material bounce. 4 to
5% that's nothing given the volatility
we've seen over the last 2 months or so.
Brent crude this morning at 94.51, WTI
88.39 higher by a little more than 5%.
>> It's so amazing to see WTI crude below
$90 a barrel right now. This is
important for this administration. You
can see how concerned consumers are when
you look at some of the polling that's
being done about the president, the
handling of the war, and also their
concern about inflation and gasoline
prices. At the same time, when nothing
is changing when it comes to the Strait
of Hormuz, and I would really argue that
this week, in actually, we saw a lot
more kinetic confrontation between
Iranian vessels and the United States of
America.
>> You know what's got a bit snoozy? The
bond market. 2s, 10s, and 30s. Let's go
with 10s. 10-year bond yields over the
previous 3 weeks just edging lower. The
2-year just anchored around 370 to 380,
which is basically where Fed funds is
right now. This Fed won't be hiking
anytime soon. Not in a rush to cut,
either. And that seems to be the story
going into the summer.
>> Yeah, Chris Waller, uh the Fed governor,
on Friday put out a speech where he
started to talk about how high the bar
was him to cut interest rates again
given the inflationary push from this uh
from this recent oil price shock. To
your point, not cutting rates, which
perhaps is what's anchoring the 10-year
Treasury yield. People aren't worried
about runaway inflation. Credibility of
the Fed, right now, based on markets,
appears to be intact.
>> at 4.26. Let's get you some single
names. Some morning movers with Mona
Yacoubian joins us now. Hey Yohai. Hi
John, that bounce in oil prices you were
just discussing is lifting the US energy
sector with names like Exxon up 1.4%
as tensions with Iran escalate. The US
seizing that Iranian vessel over the
weekend and Iran threatening to
retaliate are dashing hopes for peace
talks as both sides seem at odds over
those talks in Islamabad. And a clear
casualty of this escalation are the
travel stocks to airline stocks with
names like United down 1.7% in the
pre-market as jet fuel costs remain
elevated. And this is an industry
already in damage control mode. They've
had to cut capacity and even entire
routes. And the worry now is that this
could drag on and hit to demand and
profitability during the crucial summer
travel season. And we end on shares of
Marvell Technology. They are rising
seven nearly 8% now in the pre-market on
a report that it is teaming up with
Google on new AI chips. This is really
about Google challenging Nvidia's
dominance as Google doubles down on its
own in-house chips and tries to reduce
reliance on Nvidia's GPUs. And Marvell
as a designer and producer of chips
could clearly benefit from that. John.
Yohai, thank you. Thanks for the update.
More from Yohai later this hour. On our
radar this morning, traffic. The Strait
of Hormuz remaining at a standstill
following the US seizure of an Iranian
cargo ship. The escalation casting doubt
on whether the two nations will meet for
peace talks tomorrow. Elsewhere, the
president renewing attacks and threats
to attack civilian infrastructure in
Iran. In a Truth Social post, the
president vowing to quote "Knock out
every single power plant and every
single bridge if Tehran does not accept
the US deal." And finally, US Energy
Secretary Chris Wright saying gas prices
may not dip below $3 until next year.
I don't know. That could happen later
this year. That might not happen till
next year, but prices have likely peaked
and they'll start going down. Certainly
with a resolution of this conflict,
you'll see prices go go down. Prices
across the board on energy prices will
go down. The national average for a
gallon of gasoline remaining above four
bucks, the highest price since August
22. Yeah, and people point to the fact
that Treasury Secretary Scott Bessent
had said previously that the price of
gasoline was likely to go down to that
3% level or even below by the summer.
This is a political issue and this is an
issue of a calendar going into the
midterm elections and how much can
this administration really fortify some
of the
some of the support that they've seen in
polls recently based on the ceasefire?
Can they get oil prices down to 3%? We
ask every single commodity strategist
who comes on and they just either say no
comment or they just say no. And that
ultimately is what a lot of people, at
least in markets, seem to believe.
>> $3 a $3 a gallon is going to be really
tough for this administration. It's not
just what's going on in the Middle East
in the Strait of moves, but also it's
peak driving season. Where naturally and
normally with the cyclical cycle of
energy prices, you do see prices rise in
the summer. So this is going to be a
really hard time that they're trying to
go to before the midterm elections. And
once again, I mentioned this poll over
the weekend, 2/3 of Americans are saying
gasoline prices themselves are putting a
lot of pressure on them and their
families right now. It's certainly a
problem for confidence crude rising once
again this morning following a weekend
of tension in the Middle East
culminating with the US seizing an
Iranian ship. Francisco Blanch of Bank
of America writing the paper oil market
is priced to perfection that ignores
post-conflict energy economy realities.
Francisco joins us now for more.
Francisco, thanks for making time for us
this morning. That line at the end
there, the post-conflict energy economic
realities. What are they that you don't
think we quite appreciate?
Hey uh John, great to see you again. Um
look, I I think there is number one
um potentially a fair amount of refinery
Remember about a third of the traffic in
oil markets through Hormuz is is roughly
petroleum products. So, we're going to
have a hard time restoring petroleum
product flows, which means you were
talking about gasoline earlier.
And I do think that gasoline is probably
the least important product out of those
being exported through Hormuz. Only only
5% of seaborne gasoline globally flows
through Hormuz, but there is other
products like jet fuel or diesel
naphtha that
are are much more reliant on that
straight for supplies.
Number two, there's also oil fields.
There's many old oil fields in the
Middle East that have had to be shut
down in order to essentially contain the
storage overflow, and that could be also
a problem as we restart those. There's
potentially pipeline damage.
Um
And then of course there is there is
just uh
unnoting the
web of vessels which are tied up on both
sides of the straight and and need to be
essentially reshuffled in a in a very
meaningful way to restore flows. So, I
do think those are probably the biggest
constraints on on the oil side. And then
on gas there is there's a fuel orders we
know because of the strike the Iranian
strike in Ras Tanura. Sorry, Ras Laffan
um
about about 3 weeks ago. Francisca, can
we just hone in on one product then, jet
fuel? And can we talk about cushions
that are available to some regions? How
big is the cushion of available jet fuel
in a place like Europe? I imagine it
differs across from one country and one
nation to the next, but in your opinion
for the region as a whole right now, how
big is the cushion that they've got?
Well, we heard it from from
Fatih Birol last week. It was 6 weeks,
so I guess now it's 5 weeks, which is
why time is of the essence to restore
flows and to restore uh
operations across uh the entire Middle
East um which which frankly I mean
counts on two countries, Iran and Saudi
Arabia, have two of the of the largest
global refining tool kits. Um so so we
need to see all those flows being
restored. But yeah, I'd say Europe
probably have 5 weeks at this point. And
and John, we are already seeing
cancellations of flights. It's
relatively small at the moment. Uh but
it's it's going to start growing into
the summer cuz one of the challenges
here is that we are going to peak demand
season in the next five or six weeks.
And and and once we get into June, uh
it's going to be complicated. So
uh it's not just about locking in your
fare, locking in your your flight, is
that that flight just might be canceled.
Francisco, is this just a European issue
or will you have certain regions that no
longer have availability of jet fuel?
Does that torpedo a lot of international
travel travel more broadly?
Well well, it does because uh remember,
the only product globally that has the
same specifications across the oil
complex is actually jet fuel for the
obvious reasons that that the Boeings
and Airbuses that fly around the world
have to be filled with the exact same
specification.
Um so there is that there's that
challenge. Um
you might be able to fly out of of North
America which uh is sitting uh long
product, generally a long crude oil, uh
but can you get back? I I don't know. Uh
and I think the other issue that's
important to think about here in in when
it comes to when it comes to the
petroleum product complex is that
perhaps uh you're talking all about
gasoline, but gasoline there's some
flexibility there. We could see more
butane blending into summer gasoline uh
which would shave off some of the
prices. Uh you could see the relaxation
of other fuel specifications into the
summer. And then also um again, uh
gasoline it's a lot harder to make under
summer spec, but then winter spec is
generally easier to meet and demand
tends to be lower. So, I am perhaps a
little more
bearish on gasoline relative to other
products. Once we pass the summer, I do
think it's easier to get gasoline lower
relative to other petroleum products.
Francisco, a lot of people have
commented that they take some comfort in
the back end of the curve for oil
prices. You do have this unprecedented
backwardation. That the front end that
current prices incredibly high and you
see at the long end or just in December
you see about $80 a barrel when you look
at Brent crude. You think it's the
opposite. You think that's a warning
sign. Why?
Well, we do think that the Well, the
conflict first of all is still far from
still far from over as we've seen over
the weekend. Only about 20 vessels
passed through on Saturday and and and
you know, frankly, we need to see what
what the final negotiations yield. We
know it took about it took about 20
months to negotiate the JCPOA.
This this negotiations can be complex
and and and I realize that all parties
want to get to a quick resolution here,
but but this this takes time. And and we
need to see the flows occurring in the
meantime. If if they're not the flows
are not moving, that that's a big
problem for the market. But also
importantly,
we do think that as I pointed out
earlier, there's a lot of potential
facilities that may not be able to come
back in full force. Even if we get back
to 80 85% in the next two three months,
we're still going to need another six
plus months to get to the last 10 15% of
oil flowing through Hormuz. That's two
to three million barrels a day that the
market will be short into the end of the
year. So,
you know, while we are
you know, we're hoping that there's a
resolution soon,
we He still likely miss
a fair amount of energy for the
foreseeable future in global oil markets
and that will keep prices high into into
the year end in our view. Francisco,
this week we saw or last week we saw the
US Treasury Department basically
flip-flop. On Wednesday the Treasury
Secretary said he will not renew the
general license on Russian crude and
then Friday very late at night they
decided to extend that waiver. How much
is that cushioning the market right now?
Well, there's definitely a little bit of
cushion. I mean, the Russian
crude and and and product markets are
are pretty large and Russia is is the
world's
depending on the day second or third
largest crude oil producer and the
second largest petroleum
product exporter. So, that is a fair
amount of cushion. But, then again,
remember there's been reports of strikes
in different Russian ports both in in
the Baltic as well as more importantly
in the in in in the in the Black Sea.
We've seen impacts on on Novorossiysk
and and Novorossiysk and and so
it it's it's not easy for Russia to
export oil either
because
we've seen news of of Ukraine
trying to attack those facilities. So, I
mean, energy assets are are just
generally generally have become
targets in military conflict and and and
that's one of the most difficult parts
about forecasting where supply and
demand are going to be, particularly
supply, given that it has become very
much a reference center of of of both
policy action to your point on the US
Treasury decision, but also military
action. And and so so I do think it's
it's I mean, Russian flows are very
important to keep the market in relative
order.
And and that's why I think that decision
was made at the end of last week.
Francisco, enjoy the night. Thanks for
coming on and spending time for us this
morning. Appreciate it, sir. Francisco
Blanch there of Bank of America. some
geopolitical gymnastics taking place in
the Treasury over the past few weeks.
>> 48 hours. I mean, the Treasury secretary
had a press conference with Caroline
Levitt in the briefing room and said,
"We will not be extending these general
license and these waivers." And then 48
hours later, they extended it. And Chris
Wright, the Treasury secretary was asked
about this over the weekend, and he said
there's just a groundswell of push from
G20 countries, especially from Asia,
that were like, "We need your help. All
this energy would already be going to
China anyway. Please let it come to us."
>> Brent crude around 95 this morning. WTI
in the high 80s, about 88.60. Let's keep
an update on stories worldwide this
morning with your Bloomberg brief,
Yohara Asmar. Hey, Yohara. Hi, John.
Chinese President Xi Jinping says normal
passage through the Strait of Hormuz
should be maintained in a call with the
Saudi Crown Prince. She also said
Beijing is advocating for an immediate
and comprehensive ceasefire between the
US and Iran.
A bipartisan group of senators
reportedly warned United Airlines and
American Airlines that a merger could
hurt travelers. The Wall Street Journal
reporting the lawmakers raised concerns
about higher airfares and fewer flights.
American Airlines said last week it is
not interested in a merger.
And Meta is planning to lay off around
10% of its global workforce in the late
May. Reuters is reporting the company is
also planning further cuts in the second
half of the year. The move could help
offset some of its massive spending,
Meta's massive spending on AI
infrastructure. That's your Bloomberg
brief, John. Yohara, thank you. More
from Yohara in about 30 minutes time.
And next on the program, confirming
Kevin Warsh.
I think it's time to move on from the
case and put our attention around
getting Kevin Warsh confirmed by the
United States Senate. Let President
Trump have a new partner at the Fed.
It's time. That hearing in the Senate
just a day away, a preview with Claudia
Sahm of New Century Advisors up next.
from New York City. This is Bloomberg
TV.
Max Kettner over at HSBC just published
in a great piece about the pushback as
an equity market board that he's getting
right now. I'm sure these questions are
very familiar. This doesn't make sense.
Risk assets are detached from reality.
The worst is still to come. We've all
heard that kind of pushback over the
past few weeks. This is his pushback,
the counterargument to the pushback.
This is what he got to say this morning.
Financial conditions have eased
significantly in the last 3 weeks. At
least so far, oil futures prices haven't
converged higher to Middle East grades
and dated prices, but rather the
opposite has taken place. High-frequency
US consumption and aggregate growth
proxies have accelerated since March,
not fallen. And most importantly, the
S&P 500 is not heavy in consumer
cyclicals anyway. That's the bull case
this Monday morning.
>> Yes, Max Kettner says that all of the
pushback only makes him more bullish
because when people say this time is
different, he kind of laughs to himself
thinking, "Oh, yeah." He also points the
fact that the rate of change for news is
generally positive. And the And the
actual technicals look pretty good. So,
in short, be quick. These are the dips
you want to buy.
>> The resilience of this equity market is
anchored by right now some of the themes
that Max Kettner was going through. And
it speaks to this move here. Got a
breakdown over the weekend and the
effort the diplomatic effort between the
US and Iran. And the drawdown you're
seeing in the equity market, I don't
even think you can call it a drawdown.
We're down by 0.5% on the S&P, on the
Nasdaq down by 0.5 also. Bit of weakness
down the Russell. You anticipated that,
I'm sure. In the commodity market, maybe
we're looking for a bigger bounce in
crude, 4 to 5%. Is that big? Probably
not given the moves we've seen recently.
Brent crude at about 95, WTI around 89.
And as it happens this morning, a change
of course, we're going to focus on the
Federal Reserve confirming Kevin Warsh.
It's time to move on from this.
The petitions to the court have been
rejected and I think it's time to move
on from the case and put our attention
around getting Kevin Warsh confirmed by
the United States Senate. Let President
Trump have a new partner at the Fed. Let
Treasury Secretary Mnuchin have a new
partner in bank supervision and monetary
policy. It's it's time and I think it's
important to move. So here's the latest
this morning. Kevin Warsh's confirmation
hearing facing headwinds. Senator Tom
Tillis still vowing to block the
nomination until the DOJ ends its probe
into the central bank. Joining us now is
Claudia Sahm of New Century Advisors.
Claudia, thanks for making some time for
us today once again ahead of an
important hearing I have to say but
you're anticipating more theater than
signal and insight in the next 24 hours.
Well, confirmation hearings always have
an aspect of political theater to them
but this one frankly I think Kevin Warsh
might almost be a side show at his own
confirmation hearing. President Trump is
going to loom very large in these
hearings tomorrow and the pressure
campaign he's put on the Fed and we
might learn
not so much about Kevin Warsh and his
views on monetary policy. That said
Claudia, it feels like people are on
tenterhooks waiting for him to give some
signal of how high the bar is for him to
cut rates and exactly what he plans to
do with the balance sheet. Are you
expecting no signal from him with
respect to cutting rates at this moment
given the fact that Secretary Treasury
Secretary Scott Mnuchin essentially gave
him a green light to be a little more
hawkish than perhaps President Trump
would like.
Well, first of all somebody's got to ask
him about it. Right again, that's where
I mean him not being part of the the the
center of focus. If a lot of the
questions are about President Trump and
Fed independence and like that just
wouldn't get to what's Kevin Warsh's
reaction function. Like how does he
think about what the federal funds rate
should be? What is he balancing? And it
is difficult over his career it's a bit
of an enigma what his reaction function
is. So I think that's absolutely what we
should be learning about tomorrow. I
hope we get more guidance from him on
this. But again, senators have got to
ask him about it and really push him on
how does he think about setting the
federal funds rate. We might get some of
that tomorrow, but I I suspect we're not
going to get as much as we really should
be getting to kind of think about him as
a candidate. Claudia, are you surprised
the market's been relatively sanguine in
the face of some real drama and real
questions around A, who's going to be
atop the Federal Reserve, and B, what
will the composition look like given
some of the drama with current Fed chair
Jay Powell?
So there has been absolutely nothing
normal about this transition in
leadership at the Fed. And again, that
doesn't go back to Kevin Warsh. Since
President Trump has chosen to run the,
you know, the vetting process in a
certain way, being very clear that he's
only putting someone in place that wants
low interest rates like he does. The
fact that we have an open criminal
investigation against the current Fed
chair that's holding up the confirmation
vote. We have another governor whose job
is before the Supreme Court because the
president's trying to remove him. Like
nothing about this is normal. I mean, I
think it will be good if there's a
potential for Kevin Warsh to come in and
kind of set the tone about how he's
going to smooth out this leadership
transition because right now it's really
it's quite chaotic. If Senators Jack
Reed or Mark Warner or Cynthia Lummis
are watching this morning, what would
you ask them to ask Kevin Warsh?
So Again, I I think it's really
important to help us understand how how
does Kevin Warsh think about rates
policy. There's there's been a lot of
times where he's talked about the
balance sheet. We understand that he
doesn't like the tool of the balance
sheet. He wants a smaller balance sheet.
One thing that I've been concerned about
is often he said, "Well, as we shrink
the balance sheet, that's going to give
us space to lower interest rates." Okay,
his agenda to shrink the Fed's balance
sheet requires a real change to the
framework. That is going to take a a of
time. Okay, say he doesn't get that. Is
that what rate policy is tied to is him
getting a smaller balance sheet? If not,
what is it that rate policy is tied to
and how is he going to make these
arguments? Because again, he's had very
hawkish positions in the past
and now he's has very dovish positions.
And he's just trying to make sense of
it. Like, what is his path? And I think
for the Republican senators as well,
they need to understand who is this
person that they are elevating to Fed
chair. How does he really process
information about the economy? And
there's just There's a lot of question
marks. A confirmation hearing is where
question marks should get resolved.
Claudia, just a final question from us.
In your opinion, your opinion, what is
the most convincing argument right now
for lower interest rates?
Like, right today there isn't a
convincing argument. There really is too
much uncertainty about what's happening
with the conflict in the Middle East. We
still haven't had the tariff effects
roll off. I think we can still build the
case for the next move is a rate cut. I
think that is still appropriate. I'd
like to hear how Kevin Warsh builds that
because I would build that with some
weakness in the labor market potential.
That's not something we've ever heard
from him per se on this. But there
there's a case for the next move is a
rate cut, but it's really hard to say
that should be happening right now and
these should be big cuts. And that's
where I think, you know, if he wants to
make that case, I would be really
interesting to hear him make it.
Claudia, wonderful to have you on as
always. Claudia Sounder of New Century
Advisors. I think we're all with Claudia
right now that we want this to be
insightful. It will be box office
regardless, but we want it to be
insightful. Unfortunately, it risks not
being very insightful at all. I was
thinking, can we send Claudia a costume
to sneak into the hearings to ask some
questions that we actually want
answered? Because ultimately, it's going
to be political theater and all of us
actually want the meat. So, Claudia, if
you're looking for costume ideas, let us
know. Futures right now down by 0.5% on
the S&P 500. Coming up next, we'll catch
up with Mark Fleming of Citizens, Henry
McVey of Evercore ISI, and Veda
Partners, and Alan Wold at the Atlantic
Council, plus Vishal Khanduja of Morgan
Stanley. The second hour of Bloomberg
Surveillance up next.
We're caught in a tug-of-war between two
profound and opposing forces. The bombs
aren't dropping
and things are coming down. Both sides
don't want a deal that makes it look
like, you know, we lost.
>> We came into this with a pretty strong
economy.
>> There is significant pressure on the
global economy. This is Bloomberg
Surveillance with Jonathan Ferro, Lisa
Abramowicz, and Anne Marie Hoardern.
Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning, good morning for our
audience worldwide. The second hour of
Bloomberg Surveillance starts right now.
And your scores look like this. Pulling
back from all-time highs on the S&P 500.
The S&P on a 5-day winning run. The
Nasdaq on a 13-day winning stretch. This
morning down by just 0.5%.
Here's the bounce in crude, WTI and
Brent. The diplomatic effort breaking
down over the weekend. The strait still
largely closed. Brent crude bouncing 5%.
WTI up by six, but still trading south
of 90 at 88.82. And really what you can
see right now is just resilience in
terms of the market mood. And you can
see that when it comes to US equities,
but you can also see that to your point
with the bounce in crude. People expect
this to be resolved, tied up by the end
of May. And right now that is thought to
be a palatable outcome at least for the
United States and for US companies that
are heavily tech influenced. That said,
should this be prolonged, how big is the
downside given the fact that people are
not pricing in that terror risk?
>> There is what you might call an uneasy
calm in this equity market going into
the ceasefire deadline just a few days
away. Will that ceasefire deadline be
extended? It's self-imposed. Will we get
an extension or will hostilities resume?
I think everyone's looking for some
clarity on whether or not even the talks
take place tomorrow in Islamabad. You
know, the White House is saying that
J.D. Vance along with Steve Witkoff and
the president's son-in-law Eric Kushner
are set to go. They would have to leave
this evening from Washington to get
there in time. We have not had official
confirmation from Iran. And I talked to
this Pakistani official that said, "It's
true. There is still no official
confirmation." Norm Roule said that they
wouldn't be making these plans if they
didn't think those talks were going to
happen. So, potentially we'll see that.
But we had a weekend where it wasn't
just the straight wasn't open. We had
actual movement in terms of a U.S. Navy
shooting at and boarding an Iranian
vessel. We have not seen that since this
crisis started and we had that blockade.
>> So, on the calendar this week and check
it out. We've got possible, and I stress
possible, talks between the U.S. and
Iran ahead of that ceasefire deadline.
We've also got this and we need to talk
about it some more. Kevin Walsh is
finally getting a hearing down in
Washington, D.C. Now, the Federal
Reserve meeting is a week and a few days
away. But increasingly the focus will be
on a change of leadership. When that
change of leadership happens, I don't
know. And that's the elephant in the
room coming up tomorrow.
>> Especially given that Tom Tillis, the
senator, has said that he's going to
block any confirmation. So, yes, his
hearing might begin in the Senate
Banking Committee kind of be completed
with a vote is going to be a key
question. Ultimately, I keep going back
to this hope that maybe Claudia Sahm can
sneak into the actual hearings because
we want questions answered that will
actually give us a sense of what his
reaction function is, not political
questions around, you know, housing or
whatever else. Who would you like her to
be disguised as,
the senator? I'm actually thinking I I I
went there for a second in my head then
I was like, "No, I'm not going to do
that." So, I decided, you know, a sort
of neutral, you know, like a banker from
like the 1920s.
>> Okay. That's the disguise. That's the
disguise. Maybe Tina Smith, Cynthia
Loomis.
>> Like like big hat, top hat.
>> Good side, Brian Moynihan. I know. Maybe
like a fake mustache.
>> worried about offending Claudia if you
pick the wrong senator. Well, I just
think that it would be uh uh the whole
point is I don't want it to be
polarized. I don't want this to be a
political point. I want this to be a
market-based point. So, I'm going to
just
>> Unfortunately, that's tomorrow. It is a
political event. Correct.
>> Full of theater.
>> Which we don't want because ultimately
we want to understand how high is the
bar for him to cut rates and what does
he want to do with the balance sheet?
That's what I would like.
>> What did the president ask you and have
you committed to cutting interest rates?
Are you loyal to the president? How many
times are they going to ask that in 25
different ways on the Democratic side?
>> Yeah, and it's going to be uh you know,
I don't pre-commit to uh to any kind of
ongoing rate path and I'm not going to
disclose private conversations with the
president on repeat.
>> No doubt there'll be accomplished
senators asking about his personal
wealth.
>> Exactly.
>> In which case he should have a list of
everyone on the Senate Banking Committee
and their net worth.
>> Exactly and their trades.
>> one by one how much money they've made
since they've been down in Washington
D.C.
>> Are you trying to telegraph this?
>> I'm just, you know Here, chi-chi from
both sides.
>> what I would All right. Coming up, Mark
Zieman of Citizens Commercial Bank as
equities drift lower. Henrietta Treyz of
Veda Partners on this is a taxing home
most complicate peace talks. And Anna
World of the Atlantic Council with crude
spiking on the standoff in the Strait.
We begin this hour with stocks holding
their record highs following a
tech-fueled rally. Mark Zieman of
Citizens Commercial Bank writing AI
demand is still the gravitational force
in this market. Uncertainty hasn't
disappeared but confidence is
rebuilding. Mark joins us now from our
Mark, welcome and good morning. Thanks,
Shawn. Thanks. Confidence rebuilding is
software as well. Software just had the
best week in 25 years on the S&P 500.
What's driving that rebound?
Uh it starts with some of one of the
worst three months they've ever had. Uh
that doesn't uh hurt but obviously it it
was time for a a bounce.
Um I think the noise um got too loud in
terms of how bad it's going to be for
software. Some of the CEOs have started
to pick up the narrative that part of
this may be a winners and losers and
some of the winners are going to do a
lot better. Some of the losers, like all
cycles, are going to have a tough time.
Um, the narrative for data centers has
exploded in the last couple three weeks.
Um, you've seen some big offerings,
you've seen some narratives. And I've
been saying for a long time about
what this time in our life cycle of the
market is. Is this
the late '90s? Is this what period are
we in? And I've been kind of honing in
on this narrative. It is the late '90s,
but it's the 1890s when we're building
the railroads, and it's that big. And I
think that narrative has come back to
the markets, and that's what the market
took advantage of.
>> think there are enough good things
happening in this sector now to ignore
the bad things happening abroad?
Uh, it you know, the market thinks so.
Um,
it also thinks it's going to be
tempered, meaning it's going to be over
by the end of May, like you just said.
Um,
it's probably priced in too much
optimism for that narrative. Uh, but on
the other side of this, Jonathan, and I
hate to be repetitive, it's that big.
And I think what people pay for it is
the bigger question, and how big it's
going to be, and who the winners and
losers are. It's not a question of if,
it's when.
Is the US still winning the tech race?
And I ask this because I was reading a
Stanford paper over the weekend about
how China's quickly catching up and
really is neck and neck when it comes to
a lot of AI capabilities. And you're
seeing this in the performance of some
of those companies, but from your
vantage point, how real is that? I I
think the US is still ahead. I think the
world is catching up, and when you I say
the world is Asia. I think you we
haven't seen a lot elsewhere.
Um, but the US is still ahead. Uh, it is
really, and I hate the term given what's
going on in the middle of it, it's an
arms race, and it's a war for talent,
and it's just a war for speed. Uh, and
the leaps are so fast. But yes, I think
we're still leading, but I would not
discount how much is going on in Asia.
I've got friends who, you know, have
visited there recently and have said
this exact same thing. China and in Hong
Kong and a lot of places are catching
up. So, there's an existential feeling
behind this, which is the reason why all
of the capital expenditures seem to be
ongoing and accelerating, because
ultimately no one wants to lose what
does seem like it's fundamentally
reshaping the way we understand work.
That said, no company has come out and
said this is a return on investment when
it comes to AI. In fact, they can't even
give a sense of when they will be able
to materially monetize this. At what
point will that disconnect start to
really bite?
I I think that's partially true. I mean,
we're seeing that at Citizens where
we've got this reimagined the bank and
we've given use cases that have shown
the kind of return internally that we
see is justified. The big companies, the
big AI players with how much capital
they're soaking up and how much capital
they're spending, I think see that and I
think they do see the use cases. I I'm a
little less I'm sanguine about that,
Lisa. I think there is that kind of
possibility for the companies, but we're
in a moment in time where people are
throwing resources as fast as they can
thinking that return will come. Not
everybody will do that. But I think when
you see the kind of returns that
companies like ours are getting really
rapidly, just in terms of call center
optimization, just in terms of customer
experience, just in terms of what our
junior analysts are seeing when they're
doing their work. There's that kind of
productivity gains that we're seeing.
We're seeing it and it will allow a
diminution in terms of the number of
people. People are going to have to work
harder and better and faster and
smarter, but I think there will be that
kind of return that we would hopefully
are going to get and the AI companies
are offering to everybody. Meaning
companies, maybe even yours, might have
to lay off some people?
Well, I think it will be less so in
terms of the layoffs and more so in
terms of how many people do we need
going forward. I think it's The nature
of work has changed all the time. I say
that constantly to myself and my kids.
We all have to reinvent ourselves. AI's
requiring people to reinvent themselves.
The job that people are going to do is
being reinvented. The resources they
have are also going to be so much
grander that it's going to make your job
better. And for those who don't adapt,
it's going to be really tough. Given you
said that this is so big, what's going
on in the Middle East especially can't
derail it if especially if it ends at
the end of May. What if it doesn't? What
if this goes on for months? Could
anything really actually derail the
story you're seeing right now? Yeah, I
mean I don't think the the AI narrative
is going to get derailed. I don't think
the data center narrative is going to
get derailed. I think the cost of it and
but they have the capital, right?
There's an insatiable amount of capital
that wants to play this. A, the people
have already done it. B, the people feel
like they missed it.
>> What about the capital from the Middle
East coming in?
I I think um listen, you're going to see
probably some announcements from some of
the expenditures the Middle East has
made in terms of other forays that they
probably not seen that kind of return. I
don't think they feel like this is one
they want to avoid. I really don't. I
think this is high on the totem pole.
Mark, do you think the industry, the
tech industry needs a new PR firm?
Because the PR right now that is coming
from the leaders of OpenAI and
Anthropic, whenever those guys speak,
they seem to say the wrong things all
the time.
It's funny, they've hired the best PR
people in the world to work for them.
>> And yet they're getting it wrong.
>> And they are getting it wrong. I listen,
it's really tough. I think this is a
narrative the masses out there feel like
this is being thrown at them and they're
not ready for it. I think if you talk to
the the electorate um and that's the
always the case with technology,
Jonathan. It's going to happen and
people feel and fear it and they want to
go back cuz nostalgia's a wonderful
thing. But you're right, I think the
narrative is very difficult. They got
the Congress
uh congressmen and women who don't want
to hear what's coming. You got the
electorate who fears it cuz of the jobs
and what it's going to do to to their
lives. And then you got this overarching
surveillance no pun intended, that they
feel like it's going to inhabit their
lives. So, it's a really tough putt, as
we like to say.
>> The pushback is immense and I understand
why. When you have one leader coming out
and saying intelligence is something
you'll have to pay for.
What? And then another leader coming out
and saying that we're going to wipe out
half of white-collar jobs. Again, what?
And you're just going and getting it
from one media outlet to the other
saying the same thing. Are you hearing
the kind of pushback you're getting not
just from Congress, but the pushback
from the electorate as well. People
don't want to hear that. They don't want
to support companies that want to
achieve those things.
>> Ultimately, if they want to raise money
and they do want to IPO this year, maybe
it's good for the road show that you
can't have if you don't have us, then
you're going to be sunk. But it is
terrible when it comes to the convincing
people that this is going to be a
beneficial tool for their life to work
better because life is going to be
harder for a lot of people. And frankly,
there're going to be a lot of people who
are displaced in the process. It is an
uncomfortable message. They are not
delivering it in perhaps the way that a
lot of people would like. What is the
right message right now though? Because
when you read these studies, it is a
little petrifying when you know you've
got to completely reshape who you are
and what you're doing and how you work.
And then you've got kids and my
goodness.
>> Mark, what do you think the right
message is? What is the message that
they should be driving home at the
moment? Is there a good message to drive
home? It's a It's such a good question.
It's so hard to imagine when you repeat
what Lisa just said and say, "But but it
this is going to be good for you." Get
on board. Yeah, get on board cuz it's
going to happen. I don't think that's
the message. I think
I think there's a
a real subtle shift that they have to
make about how our lives and how it's
going to prove your life is is is tough.
Whether I don't know if that's going to
be cuz your health care is going to be
better. I don't know if it's cuz you're
you're going to be more productive. It's
because it's going to make you a better
citizen, a better parent. I don't really
know. But what they're doing is not
working. Mark, appreciate your time. As
always, it's good to see you. Thanks for
being here. Thank you, Mark Lehmann,
that of Citizens Commercial Bank. Let's
give you an update on stories elsewhere
this morning with your Bloomberg brief,
Yahaira Hasman. Hi, Yahaira. Hi, John.
The White House saying Vice President
J.D. Vance is heading to Islamabad
tonight to lead a round of a second
round of talks along with envoys Steve
Witkoff and Jared Kushner. While the
Iranians are denying they will
participate in those talks with the US.
A 14-day ceasefire is set to expire
tomorrow.
ExxonMobil, Chevron, and other energy
companies are speeding up their searches
for new oil and gas prospects away from
the Middle East. The Wall Street Journal
reporting they're exploring new drilling
candidates in Africa, South America, and
the Eastern Mediterranean.
And in sports, the race for the Premier
League title is neck and neck after
Manchester City beats Arsenal 2-1. The
two teams now sit just three points
apart with City having a game in hand.
Erling Haaland scored his league-leading
23rd goal in the 65th minute for the
win. That's Bloomberg Brief, John.
Yohara, thank you. Appreciate the
update. Spurs, Mark, Spurs. Can you
imagine Spurs getting relegated with
that stadium?
>> It's not It's not okay. It's too bad.
But boy, the Premier League is on fire.
We're We're right down the brink of that
happening. Very close to it.
>> being a Mets fan. I'm sorry. I have my
sympathy.
>> worse is it as a Mets fan right now?
Yeah, terrible. 0-11.
>> there a You know, the good news for you,
there isn't another division beneath you
for you to fall into. No, but it's utter
humiliation.
Depression. I mean, honestly, you
relegate it and just end it already.
It's sort of put them out of their
misery.
>> We got Spurs fans in our midst. It's not
pleasant.
>> It's not pleasant at home.
>> pleasant. I feel bad. TK's a Spurs fan,
too. Well, you know, hopefully he's not
a Mets fan, too. No, he's not.
>> He's a Red Sox Red Sox fan. That's
right. He likes Boston sports. Yeah.
Up next on the program, standing firm
against Iran.
They wanted to close up the strait
again, you know, as they've been doing
for years.
And they can't blackmail us. We're
taking a tough stand. They've gotten
away with murder for 47 years. They're
not getting away with it anymore. Up
next, we'll catch up with Hamdi Ulukaya
of Chobani Partners live from New York
City this morning. Good morning.
Stocks right now negative by 0.5% on the
S&P. Similar move on the Nasdaq pulling
back on the Russell by 0.9 but
incredibly robust over the past 3 weeks.
3 weeks of 3% plus gains on the S&P 500.
That is very very rare. On the Nasdaq
100 this morning down by 0.5 but coming
off the back of a 13-day winning streak.
Big turnaround for the tech story.
That's helped EM as well. Check out the
MSCI EM stock index. We have erased the
war gap lower. We filled the gap. Why?
Because this index is not the economy.
The number one waiting on that index is
Taiwan Semi. Number two is Samsung.
Three is Tencent. Four is SK Hynix.
That's the big tech story driving EM
stocks higher as well. Yeah, with this
belief that China and frankly Asian tech
in general is catching up very quickly
to the United States with also a
backdrop of potentially a weakening
dollar. So once again people saying that
could take hold should this cut crisis
debate giving tail giving fuel to this
ongoing trend that we've seen in the
tech space.
>> That's the tech story. Let's turn to the
commodity market moves. Brent and WTI
higher this morning by 5 to 6%. WTI
crude at 89. Brent crude around 95. And
the Savannah's this morning standing
firm against Iran.
We'll be talking about Iran later. We
have very good conversations going on.
It's uh
It's working out very well. They
got a little cute as they have been
doing for 47 years. Nobody ever took
them on. We took them on. They wanted to
close up
the straight again, you know, as they've
been doing for years.
And they can't blackmail us. We're
taking a tough stand. They've gotten
away with murder for 47 years and not
getting away with it anymore. So here's
the latest this morning. The US seizing
an Iranian shipment at the Strait of
Hormuz. Iran vowing to respond with a
fragile ceasefire set to expire in the
coming days. Well, Bloomberg's Dana
Khairallah joins us now for more. Good
morning, Dana.
Hey John. Good morning. Well, there
seems to be risk of escalation on
multiple fronts, but still the White
House maintains that diplomacy is still
a viable option ahead of tomorrow's
ceasefire deadline. But at the moment,
Iran is wavering on whether or not it
will send any diplomats to Pakistan for
another round of peace talks. And at
least for now, publicly, Iranian
officials have denied making any
concessions to the US when it comes to
their nuclear program. Plus, as you just
mentioned, we really saw tensions flare
in the Strait of Hormuz as Iran moved to
reimpose restrictions on traffic, and
the US for the first time seized an
Iranian tanker since the blockade began.
Now, CENTCOM did put out a statement
saying that this happened because the
vessel failed to comply with military
instructions over a 6-hour period. But
despite all of this, President Trump
still took to Truth Social and said that
he sees a path forward for talks to
progress, but importantly reiterated a
threat to hit Iranian civilian
infrastructure if a deal is not made in
time. We're going to have to watch where
this goes because the White House is
pursuing that diplomatic route for now.
The White House saying that Vice
President J.D. Vance, alongside Special
Envoy Steve Witkoff and the president's
son-in-law Jared Kushner, are set to
depart tonight for Islamabad. And John,
at this point, other countries are also
ramping up the pressure. New this
morning, Chinese President Xi Jinping
saying in a phone call with the Saudi
Crown Prince that it is imperative for
the Strait of Hormuz to reopen. We
should point out Bloomberg News reported
last week that Gulf Arab and European
leaders are estimating it could take up
to 6 months for a fuller term deal to be
reached as we tick closer to tomorrow's
deadline.
>> It's on a candle down in Washington.
Tyler, thank you. You can sense the
fatigue. Another Monday morning that
started on Sunday evening. Waiting for
that gap lower in risk and that bouncing
crude of some tough words over the
weekend, and then anticipating that any
moment now, as we get closer and closer
to the cash open state side, you'll get
a warm fuzzy social media post about the
prospect of talks and extending the
ceasefire. That's been the rhythm, the
pattern of things that this market has
become exhausted and fatigued by over
the past, let's call it 2 months now.
>> It feels like you're dealing with a
friend who's complete drama queen and
they keep coming to you with a crisis
that they're going to resolve in a
couple hours and you stop paying
attention to and stop caring about and
that's ultimately how the market seems
to be responding.
>> it's the boy that cried wolf, right?
When it comes to some of these
proclamations, but actually tangible
nothing is changing at the moment on the
ground. The idea though that this market
has is at least they're talking or
talking about talking for the moment
seems to be good news.
>> Henrietta Treyz, a fair upon us writes
in the following anticipating high crude
prices, understanding basic supply and
demand realities can be undercut in an
instant by a presidential tweet.
Henrietta joins us now for more.
Henrietta, welcome to the program. Let's
talk about those talks. Who is the US
negotiating with? Who is in charge in
Iran? And are they the same people?
That's the perfect question. I mean, I
don't think that J.D. Vance is headed
over there knowing exactly who's in
charge. You can see disparate
indications from across Iran, different
directives, different
statements about whether or not the
Ayatollah is still being collected,
whether or not you can use certain
shipping lanes, who needs to turn around
and when when and why. The confusion is
rampant and I think the lack of a stable
negotiating platform is really pointing
to maybe at best from the market's
perspective, a continuation of the
ceasefire, maybe for another 14 days,
another couple weeks,
but no clear definitive end to any of
this. I know you've done a lot of hill
checks. What are they saying about the
ceasefire? Do they want to see that be
extended?
It depends who you ask. So, there is
some indication from some of the
members. I would say Lindsey Graham, for
example, who's chairman of the budget
committee and we should watch him really
closely because he's going to have a lot
to say about how we provide additional
funding for the Pentagon
um or whether or not we stimulate the US
consumer to offset gas prices in the
forthcoming budget reconciliation bill.
He's been pretty aggressive behind the
scenes calling for the president to
continue taking a very hard tact. But
even the most concerned senators, I
would say those who are up for election
this cycle, are not pressing the
president to just completely end this.
If anything, they're more responsive to
the president's tweets about you know
being Christ the healer and combative
with the Pope. That stuff really doesn't
play well with the American electorate.
Um and so there's been a lot more
opposition to that kind of dynamic than
there has been to the decision uh now
that it's been made to go into Iran and
now the strait is closed and that's
obviously a problem. We're seeing in
polling that Americans are frustrated
with higher gasoline prices, but we're
just over $4 a gallon on the national
average. You say the line in the sand
for Congress is $5 a gallon. Ahead of
the midterm elections, if we hit five,
what's going to be the response?
There's two things that play here. For
So first, we've seen $4 uh gas before.
We're $4.08 or whatever right now. So
the American consumer doesn't like this.
It's not enjoyable, obviously, but it's
not the worst thing they've ever seen.
We've been through the Arab Spring.
We've been through the pandemic. Uh
staff on Capitol Hill really tells me
that $5 is more the inflection point. As
we get into the 450, 475, 485 range, we
start talking about suspending the
federal gas tax, which Canada has
already done in Georgia in the United
States has already done. So there's room
to run on that front, but really for the
election, it's the volatility. Uh there
have been some analyses done
historically over how voters respond to
higher gas prices, and it's not the
price. It's the the chaos. Um it's the
extreme swings that voters don't like.
That's what they pay attention to, and
that's what Republicans have to worry
about going into November. Henrietta,
what's your sense of the willingness to
increase funding to the Defense
Department going forward, especially
should this start to spiral and uh the
hot war begin to reassert itself?
There's definitely appetite for more
defense spending amongst the Republican
conference. I mean, there's no problem
really with Lindsey Graham adding a $200
billion, maybe let's say a $100 billion
Pentagon plus up to their forthcoming
reconciliation bill. It's shocking to me
that they're only going to put a bill
out that's maybe in the $75 billion
range. This thing could be $700 billion
if they wanted it to. You know, the last
time we passed a proactive fiscal
stimulus bill, let alone under
reconciliation, it was $3.5 trillion.
So, to get something with not even three
digits is wild to me. Um I I understand
my perspective is biased since I deal
with like hundreds of billions and
trillions more normally than millions,
but $75 billion is nothing. If they
wanted to tack on additional funding for
the Pentagon, they easily could and get
this through the Republican conference.
Democrats are not going to provide any
votes for it. So, if Hextech needs money
before, I don't know, a couple months
from now, before September 30th when the
fiscal year ends, they're going to do it
in this reconciliation bill. Annalisa,
good to see you as always. And Annalisa
tries to evade a partner's Lockheed has
sold off over the past 2 months or so,
but year-to-date still higher by more
than 20%.
>> This is one of the key trades for so
many different investors. Go into
defense spending because even Germany
now, uh their sovereign wealth fund
opening the doors to investing in these
kinds of companies.
>> Um next on the program, we'll catch up
with Anam Wong of the Atlantic Council
with tensions in the Strait of for most
sending crude higher plus Danny has your
morning movers. Senators reportedly
warning United and American that a
merger would hurt travelers.
Last week, the biggest weekly gain since
May on the S&P 500. Equities up for five
consecutive days. Struggling to make it
day six, we're pulling back by 0.5%.
Talked a lot about that 13-day winning
run on the Nasdaq 100 the longest since
2013 on the Nasdaq 100 we're down by
0.5% this morning within the tech sector
software software stocks just had their
best week since 2001.
That's the part of this equity market a
pocket of it that's had some real pain
for much of the year. People were
worried especially with the private
credit woes. We haven't said private
credit in a while and redemptions but
that happened this year too and there
was this fear that maybe people got over
their skis with trying to predict their
future revenues given the fact that they
could be disruptable. Now people are
saying who cares they're so undervalued
we can go back in and it just gives you
a sense of how much of a relief rally we
really have seen.
>> Nasdaq futures inching lower even as
talks over the weekend between the US
and Iran the diplomatic effort appears
to be breaking down going into that
ceasefire deadline. Brent and WTI
advancing by 5 to 6% WTI still south of
90 at the front end of the futures curve
at 89 on WTI crude back-to-back weekly
losses for the first time since February
and this morning I have to say relative
to the moves we've seen more recently
muted moves.
>> I think it's because the market is
pretty much expecting the ceasefire to
either to be extended or actually the
Iranians to show up to those talks
tomorrow. We do know that the United
States is preparing the delegation to
leave as soon as this evening they would
have to leave to make those talks. We're
just waiting on the Iranians to confirm
that they are going to be there and even
if the talks break down they decide
they're not going to meet tomorrow.
Don't you expect the president to come
out and say I'm willing to give
diplomacy a few more days. The issue of
course is for the oil market is that not
only is the strait still shut but this
weekend you had two ships in India that
they were shooting at from the Iranians
you had the US Navy fire upon and
actually board an Iranian flagged
vessel. We haven't seen that since this
blockade started so the escalation we
actually saw tick up this weekend not
wind down.
>> Brent crude at 95 WTI at 89 a few hours
away from the cash open with your money
movers Danny Berger has more. Hey Danny.
Hey John starting with some tech news.
Marvell and Google, reportedly,
according to the information, reached an
agreement in which Marvell would create
custom AI chips. Two different kinds of
chips, but very specifically, they would
only be for Alphabet. Alphabet shares a
little bit lower in that agreement, but
Marvell up 6.2%. Elsewhere, we learned
over the weekend that American has said,
"No, thank you, United. We would not
want to merge with you." This, of
course, comes after reports that Scott
Kirby from United went to the White
House, went to this administration, said
that he was interested in a merger of
the two potentially. Uh it would create,
of course, one of the largest airlines.
United and American down at least 3%
this morning. Finally, in other deal
news, QXO, the Brad Jacobs company, will
be buying TopBuild, a $17 billion
agreement that would see the purchase
price be about a $505
a share. So, we're not quite at the deal
price yet. Shares, though, are up about
18%. QXO, the acquirer, which, by the
way, Brad Jacobs has been incredibly
inquisitive over the past year. Those
shares fall 4%. It would make QXO, uh
the largest building supply company
listed, uh and, of course, this is an
insulation company, and those are
movers, John. Very cool. Thanks for the
update, Danni. Thank you. More from
Danni in the next hour. And all right
down this morning, the US Navy seizing
an Iranian cargo ship as Tehran closes
the Strait of Hormuz once again.
President Donald Trump threatening to
strike Iran's power plants and bridges
if a deal isn't reached before the
ceasefire expires tomorrow. The UAE
seeking a financial lifeline from the
United States. The Wall Street Journal
reporting Emirati officials are
discussing a currency swap to protect
their economy against potential impacts
from the war. And finally, beginning
today, businesses can claim refunds on
the billions spent under President
Trump's sweeping global tariffs. The
Supreme Court striking them down in
February, ruling the levies
unconstitutional. Officials warning
rebates could be months away. So, at
8:00 a.m., there is an online portal uh
that people can submit their claims to.
This is according to the US Customs and
Border Protection and then the CBP will
rule on said claims. It might take 60 to
90 days to get the rebate. Okay, we just
all filed our taxes. We know how much we
paid. I just wonder going forward what
it's going to look like when suddenly
you realize what the budget deficit
looks like if they do give these refunds
and then they put on additional tariffs.
I mean this sequence I'm still trying to
wrap my head around.
>> to know how much companies are paying to
hire a team to do all this cuz this is a
baby step going on this portal and
signing up. It's the first step to try
to get the refund back and there's going
to be a few very annoying process
underway to get these refunds back and
then to Lisa's point this comes at a
time when the administration says by
this summer they want to get back to
those same rates. So they're going to
get a refund for last year but then
they're going to have to start paying
tariffs yet once again after the
administration goes through all the
other avenues like 301s, 242s to get
tariffs back in play.
>> We've introduced a lot of friction into
the global economy
in just one year. The trade story, the
war in the Middle East. Can you imagine
where the stock market would be if these
two things hadn't happened?
I mean honestly this is what a lot of
people talk about that that is putting
such a damper. What would we be talking
about 10,000 on the S&P 500 not the Dow.
I mean we're talking about an
a market that has so many tailwinds that
only is as high as it is at record highs
because of how it's being held back by
all these other frictions. I think this
is a side story. Question to me is when
does it become front and center once
again when you start to see some of the
additional tariffs put up in place by
this administration.
>> Certainly in the background right now
that's for sure. Front and center is
this one this story at the moment crude
climbing on renewed uncertainty through
the Strait of Hormuz and then world at
the Atlantic Council writing instead of
trying to jawbone markets with positive
sentiment the president should stick
with messaging from a position of
strength and no vacillation. Alan joins
us now for more. Alan welcome to the
program. I was speaking to a market
contact earlier
who had a basic question.
Is the worst of it behind us? Is this
the post-liberation day picture of the
market right now? Is it a similar story
or is it different this time?
I'm not sure whether we're we're really
the whether the worst has passed. I
think that the US actually commandeering
or or blockading these ships is is
pretty much um
an escalation of events. It depends I
guess whether we see more active bombing
and whether we see Iran responding
to that by hitting its neighbors. I
think that that's absolutely still in
the cards. Though the fact that the
ceasefire
is is I guess technically still in
place. Though I'm not sure you can say
it's still in place if we've had Iranian
ships firing on on ships trying to
transit the strait and and the US firing
on on Iranian ships. I'm not sure we can
really call that a ceasefire. But it
does seem to still be in place and so I
wouldn't be too hesitant to say
that the worst is passed but it it could
get worse very very quickly.
>> Let me ask you what you think is more
likely that in the next 24-48 hours, an
extension of the ceasefire or a
resumption of hostilities?
I think an an extension of the ceasefire
is more likely but only maybe a little
over 50% I would I would put it at.
So at this point Ellen, how feasible do
you see the outcome that the market is
pricing in?
This is sort of what we're trying to get
our head around because it seems like
people come on
this show who are in the equity space or
who even trade oil and they say well you
know this actually roughly games out
what's probable and then oil commodity
strategies come on and they say
absolutely not that seems highly
unlikely. What's your take?
I I think it's it's pretty unlikely
right now. I think the market is
overexuberant in terms of
the a fast fix to all of this. I think
that
despite what President Trump tweeted on
Friday,
Iran and the United States are leagues
and leagues and worlds apart in terms of
what they want. And Iran has absolutely
no incentive to give in on anything at
this point because first of all, there's
it doesn't see anything wrong with
higher oil prices, whereas Trump keeps
going back to these very positive
statements to try to get prices down and
get get the Dow Jones up. And yet I
think it's pretty clear at this point
that once everything actually is
resolved, we're going to go back to
where we were in a hurry. Prices will go
oil prices will go down, equities will
go up. And so it seems like it's a kind
of confusing to me as to why he keeps
trying to make things seem better than
they are just to to get things looking
better at the beginning of the week or
when markets open when you know, let it
be. You know, say say your position,
hold strong because that's clearly what
he wants to do.
And and then let it all you know, but
let the cards fall where they will when
it when it ends. Helene, you wrote the
book on Saudi Arabia, Saudi Inc. Talking
about how the kingdom really came to
fruition and some of the monetary
backing of the oil complex. Do you have
a sense of how much Saudi Arabia and the
other Gulf countries are shifting
alliances, moving away from the US maybe
amid this conflict?
I do think that we're in a different
paradigm than we used to be. Really, you
know, Asia is the most important
customer now for Saudi Arabia and the
UAE and and other big oil exporters. It
used to be that the US was their most
important customer. However, China and
and Asian countries are not big military
suppliers. China's navy is never going
to go into the Persian Gulf, whereas the
US navy, they're the ones that are
there. So it's it's a slightly different
dynamic in that the US is still very
important financially, very important as
a military supplier and as a a
force and and an air force in the
region, but it's not that it doesn't
play that same role as buyer of oil. And
so that means that
these countries have a bit less leverage
over the US than they used to. At the
same time, they're not going to want to
create all this friction with their
security blanket, are they?
Exactly. And so it is a bit of a of a
careful line that they're walking
because they need the the military
protection, but they can't necessarily
say to the US, "Hey, we're we're going
to start you know, we're we're going to
control oil supplies now and and to make
sure we get that." It's it's not so much
of a of a quid pro quo here and and I
think that they do need to tread
carefully and we're seeing them tread
carefully.
You know, they haven't been all that
vocal about about what's going on and I
think that that that's a sign that they
know that their position is perhaps a
little more precarious than it used to
be.
>> Well, there are reports that Mohammed
bin Salman had a phone call with Xi
Jinping earlier today.
Are the Gulf Arab partners you think
pressing on China to put the thumb on
the scale on Iran?
I think they absolutely could because
China is one partner of of Iran that
they that has that economic pull with
Iran. On the other hand, I do think that
you know, these calls could be all about
just maintaining you know, maintaining
the conversation about the fact that you
know, China has a lot of investments in
Saudi Arabia that are not doing all that
well right now because they can't get
oil out and you know, there there are
issues with the petrochemicals. And so I
wouldn't be surprised to see the Saudis
and and counterparts in the UAE reaching
out to people in China to assure them
that the relationship is strong, that
once this is over, you know, things are
going to be repaired and and go back to
everyone making money the way it used to
be. Adam, what happened on Friday? Can
we just finish on that between 8:00 and
9:00 a.m. Eastern time on Friday, there
was a series of messages
from one delegate coming out of Iran and
another in the US making the case that
the Strait of Hormuz had reopened.
And we were sitting here thinking, maybe
it has. Let's see. Let's wait and find
out. And then we found out pretty
quickly, it hasn't at all. What happened
there? Was it something the US did? Or
was it just that the Iranians committed
to something that ultimately not all
Iranians and all interested parties had
agreed to?
Yeah, I think it's I think it's both.
It's it's a bit of both here because
there's a bit of overexuberance on the
part of Trump to say the Strait of
Hormuz is open. Iran has agreed to
everything we want. You know, let's
let's move on now. I think there's a
huge amount of pressure particularly
from Trump to for that to be the
message. On Iran's part on the other
hand, remember, these are these are not
these parties are not talking to each
other. They're talking to intermediaries
who are then talking to each other, who
are then going and and talking to the
other parties. So, so Iran and the US
are not communicating with each other.
And so, there's a bit of a dance in the
word play that comes on comes around.
The US may say, we want X, Y, and Z. And
when that message gets to the Iranians,
it's not the same as exactly what the US
said. And so, when Iran agrees to
something, they're agreeing to what what
they think they're agreeing to, which
can fly with their people, which is not
necessarily what Trump
thinks they're agreeing to. And this
happens a lot in diplomacy particularly
when the parties are not actually
sitting down at the same table as each
other and not speaking the same
languages. And so, I think this means
there's a lot more to bridge. Iran also
needs to message to its own people.
And as you you mentioned on the program
earlier, we're not entirely sure exactly
who we're speaking to with regards to
Iran. There's the IRGC and there's the
the elected government. And those are
not necessarily the same and don't have
the same opinion and don't even
necessarily have uh the same elements
under their control in the country. Adam
Wald at the Atlantic Council, Anna,
thank you. It's a question we asked
earlier this hour. We've asked it
repeatedly.
Who is the US negotiating with? Who is
in charge in Iran right now? And are
they the same person? Yeah, and are they
going to be communicating with the
interloper that's going to then be
talking to the other mediator that's
then going to be talking to the other
side? And this is the reason why it's a
big game of telephone, but you're not
even sure who's initiating the message.
It's a very difficult scenario and the
reason why people are ending up with the
confusion of "The street's open. It's
closed. It's open. It's closed."
>> Which is why I think some investors are
just choosing to look through the whole
tobacco. It just seems like something
you can't game out or get an edge on, so
analyze what you can. Futures right now,
down by 0.5% on the S&P, just pulling
back from all-time highs. With an update
on stories elsewhere this morning, with
your Bloomberg Brief, Ye-arra Has more.
Hi, Ye-arra. Hi, John.
Tensions rising in the Middle East after
the US Navy boarded an Iranian-flagged
ship in the Gulf of Oman. President
Donald Trump also threatening to destroy
every every power plant and bridge in
Iran if negotiations fail as peace talks
are expected to resume tomorrow.
US Energy Secretary Chris Wright saying
gas prices may not dip back below $3
until next year.
I don't know. That could happen later
this year. That might not happen till
next year. But prices have likely peaked
and they'll start going down. Certainly
with a resolution of this conflict,
you'll see prices go go down. Prices
across the board on energy prices will
go down.
The national average for a gallon of
regular gasoline remains above $4, the
highest since August 2022.
And the Senate Banking Committee is set
to hold a confirmation hearing for Fed
Chair nominee Kevin Warsh tomorrow at
10:00 a.m. Eastern. Warsh's confirmation
is in question with Republican Senator
Tom Tillis vowing to block any Fed
nominations until the DOJ wraps up its
current probe into Chair Jay Powell.
That's your Bloomberg brief, John.
Yohai, thank you. More from Yohai in
about 30 minutes time. Up next on the
program, pushing back on rate cuts.
The Fed has to get the rate down. I
still think you'll get a couple of cuts.
Do you push it back a little bit? Yeah,
maybe. The 10-year part of the curve,
it's pretty unbelievably stable. Up
next, we'll catch up with Vishy Khanduja
of Morgan Stanley from New York City.
You're watching Bloomberg TV.
Futures slightly negative, pulling back
from all-time highs that we posted again
into the weekend on the S&P, the Nasdaq,
and the Russell. We're down by 0.4% on
the S&P. Underperforming on the Russell,
small caps down by 0.8%.
Under Savannah this morning, pushing
back on rate cuts.
The Fed has to get the rate down. I
still think you'll get a couple of cuts.
Do you push it back a little bit? Yeah,
maybe. But, you're talking about a very
two-speed economy where interest rates
really affects things. The 10-year part
of the curve, it's pretty unbelievably
stable. I do think what, you know, when
Kevin Warsh is confirmed, I do think
you'll see a dynamic where can you
contain the 10-year point of the curve?
So, here's the latest this morning.
Investors hedging against stubborn
inflation, reversing rate cut bets as
yields rise on the ongoing war in the
Middle East. Vishy Khanduja of Morgan
Stanley writing, "Rates in the curve
will adjust on a transitory inflation
shock, not to a material or prolonged
growth downturn." Vishy joins us now for
more. Vishy, welcome to the program. I
was going through your note, a couple of
lines jumped out to me. I just want to
pick out one just to start. The
perceived disconnect between rates and
risk assets. You've highlighted that.
What do you mean by it?
Yeah, good morning, Sean. Uh thanks for
having me on.
Uh so, very clearly, I think we have
seen this massive disconnect, I think,
since the first 2 weeks of the conflict
where you saw a massive repricing in the
front end. overall rates go up in
countries or regions where
we import a lot of that commodity.
You've seen a much more almost like a
10x standard deviation move on the other
side. So the market is saying that the
central banks need to step in instead of
repricing in cuts. Now we have to price
in three to four hikes to slow down
growth and eventually then slow down
inflation to avoid a pseudo 2022 type
scenario. But the growth assets risk
assets on the other side are completely
ignoring the growth shock or the
bumpiness from growth that we might get
as central banks get less accommodative
or more restrictive on that end. So that
disconnect between you know the macro
side of the market or the rates and much
more liquid side of the market is
presenting a scenario of significant
inflation which needs growth to be
slowed down and then inflation coming
down and then the risk assets just
ignoring all of that saying economies
are just fine. And even with that
restriction we'll be okay to price in
much tighter spreads. So that disconnect
is is unwarranted in our in our opinion
and has to do a little bit with
positioning of how we came into this
conflict into March and
that's why it allowed us to reposition
portfolios. Vishal, not to take you too
far away from fixed income, but do you
think the cyclical tailwinds in the AI
ecosystem go some way to explaining that
performance in risk assets?
I agree. I think the two biggest parts
and I think if you just myopically just
focus from the US, the two biggest
growth drivers here AI infrastructure
spend we are coming up with numbers
three and a half to five and a half
trillion over the next 24 months that
that the economy will will see the boost
from is undeterred
and also the second part which is the
upper end of the K-shaped economy
consumer that is spending again
undeterred with that three and a half or
four dollar gas price that you've seen.
So, there is definitely a little bit
more of that pointing to that uh, fact
that that certain strong drivers of the
economy are still uh, almost undeterred
through this through this conflict, but
that does not apply directly to the
global economy. That does not apply
directly to economies that are going to
be importing a lot of the lot of the oil
and have had seen energy shocks in the
in the past as well. It's a confusing
moment and it's a confusing moment fixed
income as well. And Vishaal, it almost
underscores how confusing it is that
you're long the 7 to 10 year part of the
yield curve at the same time they are
adding high yield bond risk. I mean, how
do you understand exactly why we can
both gain confidence in pinned inflation
expectations over the longer term and
invest in some of the riskier parts of
the market that will benefit from an
expansionary economy at a moment where
inflation is higher than target?
Fantastic. Um, you know, pinpoint there
and and great question. I think high
yield to us is um,
if you take a look at the 40 year spread
chart for high yield, I think that
spread chart makes a big assumption that
today's quality of high yield market is
similar to what it was in 2008, 2010,
2018, and so on and so forth. It makes a
wrong assumption that, you know, the
quality of the high yield market is not
changed. But if you look through the
details, it is the highest quality of
high yield market that we've ever seen.
Highest amount of double Bs, highest
amount of secured bonds, lowest amount
of duration uh, that you've seen. So, in
fixed income terms, I think they are
going after
higher quality, higher fundamentals,
higher yielding DXS uh, type names or
type allocation rather than actually
buying a single A corporate on a 30 year
or 40 year part which is trading at 65
to 85 basis points over Treasury. So, we
think that the probability of excess
returns in long spread duration bonds
rather than short spreadier bonds, is
going to be very different and the
outcomes will be very different. But,
yes, security selection is significantly
important, as this person has picked up.
I think few of your guests talked about
the software exposure, etc. That's just
the tipping of the iceberg,
in in our opinion. And then, the other
part about duration, I think we go back
to that disconnect that we talked about,
where you're seeing market pricing in
quite a bit of that inflation shock and
just over the last probably six trading
sessions, you've start to come back and
ask questions about the growth shock.
And we believe that to 10-year part of
the interest rate curve here in the US,
even if
cuts are pushed back, even if the
dovishness and is pushed back to the to
the Fed, whether it's the leadership
change, whether it's a wait-and-watch
approaches, the inflation prints will be
will be coming higher. We don't think
that the terminal rate has come any
higher from our perspective. So, that
gives us that growth protection.
If we are wrong and we are, you know,
growing into a much major growth
correction, and then the high yield bit
on the shorter side gives us that high
quality yield bias within the portfolio.
Vishal, always smart and great to get
your opinion on things, your insight.
Vishal Khanduja there of Morgan Stanley.
A fixed income conversation with no
conversation whatsoever about Kevin
Warsh and the hearing tomorrow, which I
think tells you a lot about how fixed
income investors are thinking about
what's to come in that hearing. It tends
to be those kinds of events though that
are the most market moving, because
people aren't prepared for it. Someone
Maybe someone dressed as the banker from
you know, some movie in the 1920s might
come in and say, "What is your risk
tolerance going forward? At what point
how high is your bar to cut rates?" And
then everyone will actually sit up and
pay attention in markets, and it might
be an actual tradeable moment.
>> we want an understanding of the
individual's reaction function and what
kind of committee he thinks he's going
to be coming into. These are the kind of
questions that I think we've all got
about this leadership. How have Kevin
Warsh's thoughts evolved since we last
heard from him? What are his reflections
on the war in the Middle East, the
future of Fed policy and communication?
All of those things, how much insight
will we get on those things tomorrow? My
bar for expectations is pretty low. I
think a lot of people's are, which is
the reason why they're focusing on other
things.
>> Coming up tomorrow, Stephen Parker, or
rather up next, we'll catch up with
Stephen Parker of JP Morgan Private
Bank, Cedric Wouters of I Squared
Capital, Isabelle Mateus Ilago of BNP
Paribas, and Mike Contopoulos of Janus
Henderson. Hearing, of course, is
tomorrow. The third hour of Bloomberg
Surveillance is up next.
The market wants to be positive.
>> This is a market that is ready to rip.
>> We are long the equity market and
comfortable with the way the market's
behaving.
>> Heightened geopolitical risk, but also
bullish markets. That is the prevailing
mood right now.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Ferro, Lisa Abramowicz, and
Annmarie Hordern.
Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning, good morning for our
audience worldwide. The third hour of
Bloomberg Surveillance starts right now.
Your equity market looks like this,
pulling back from all-time highs on the
S&P. We're down by 0.4% following a
five-day winning streak into the weekend
on the Nasdaq. You've heard about this a
million times already this morning, I'm
sure, 13-day winning run on the Nasdaq
100, pulling back just a touch. We take
some weight off that recent rally. We're
down by 0.4%. In the commodity market an
update on Brent and WTI crude. Some
tension over the weekend between the US
and Iran. Brent bouncing by 5%, WTI up
by close to six, 88 and 94 respectively.
I have great sympathy and respect for
people trying to trade this oil market
right now. Good luck, because ultimately
it has been such a whipsaw, and it's the
reason why markets are not paying as
much attention. Initially, when the war
in Iran started, you saw a real lockstep
between equities and oil prices.
Increasingly, people seem to be
shrugging off some of the gyrations,
focusing instead on earnings. And this
comes with a slew of corporate earnings
and the fact that ultimately the
backbone of the US economy still seems
like it's very strong.
>> earnings front, you'll hear from United
Airlines later this week, Tesla, IBM
next week. The major tech firms all
reporting around Wednesday, so look out
for that. The only thing you can do is
go to the calendar. Coming up tomorrow,
potentially, talks between the US and
Iran approaching that ceasefire
deadline. Potentially, what research
Tobin Marcus, who's a friend of the
show, just put out a note talking about
everyone wants a deal, but at what
price? Even if the worst is behind us,
we're back to two-sided risk. So,
potentially, we're going to have those
talks, or potentially we're not. And
then what does that mean? Does the
president offer a diplomatic road map
off-ramp of a little bit more time going
past the April 22nd deadline, or we back
to more escalation, which we did see
this weekend in the Strait of Hormuz.
>> It's so difficult to predict those
things, so what have you done? You've
bought tech. So many people have been
piling into the tech trade. We just had
the biggest week of gains for software
stocks since 2001.
For the Nasdaq 100, the longest winning
streak since 2013.
And next week, earnings from Amazon,
Microsoft, Meta, Alphabet all coming up
potentially on Wednesday. people have
been focused on just how much cash
they're
earning and the fact that they've been
derated in terms of multiple expansion
just simply because they have not kept
pace with the rally earlier this year.
Going forward, the key question is how
much tolerance is there in the market
for an ongoing acceleration of capital
expenditures, given the fact that this
is an existential race. That's going to
be put to test next week. The fact that
we were just speaking with a fixed
income strategist who doesn't like
investment grade debt as much gives you
a sense of potential pushback, not
necessarily on people not willing to buy
the debt, but potentially offering
demanding a significantly higher premium
for it to be sold.
>> A small dip this Monday morning in
equities at least we're down by 0.4%.
Coming up this hour, we'll catch up with
Stephen Parker at JP Morgan Private Bank
with a record-breaking rally on pause.
Seddik Boukhaba of I Squared Capital on
how the war in Iran is intensifying the
need for infrastructure, and Isabel
Mateos y Lago of BNP Paribas previewing
tomorrow's confirmation hearing for
Kevin Walsh. We begin this hour with
stocks falling and crude rising. Stephen
Parker of JP Morgan Private Bank
writing, "Uncertainty remains elevated,
and downside risks related to higher
energy prices must still be considered."
Stephen joins us now for more. Stephen,
good morning. Good morning. How are you
framing this for clients? Do you see it
as a sustained supply problem, or a
transient shock? We think that it's a,
you know, we're we're we're always
careful about the word transient after
the last couple of years, right? But but
I think that uh I we our base case is
that oil prices are likely headed back
to something like $75 to $80 a barrel
over the next uh 3 to 6 months.
>> that base case? You know, our view is
that we think that ultimately, while
we're not trying to predict geopolitics,
we look like we're headed towards an
off-ramp solution to this conflict. We
do think that supply, particularly here
in the US, you know, is is well
supported. And ultimately, we think that
we're going to see a resumption of of
global oil uh supply in the near term.
>> So, do you choose to ignore the incoming
headlines as they whipsaw investors in
one direction and the other? Well, I
think what you have to recognize is
that, you know, markets are becoming a
lot less responsive to these headlines,
right? This type of move in in energy
prices a month ago would have caused a
lot more of a reaction to equity markets
than the 40 or 50 basis points that
we're down this morning. And I think
that reflects bit of one, an assumption
that we are headed towards a, you know,
a a lower oil price environment. But
two, a shift in focus, as Lisa said, to
to the earning story, which remains very
well supported. And this idea that we
already had a multiple compression from
the big tech spaces. They didn't keep up
with some of the rallies since later
last year. So, there's a question here
of how much of that catch-up trade
already has been priced in, and how much
more there is potentially to go. Yeah, I
mean, the the sell-off that we saw
earlier this year was all sentiment
driven. It was all valuations because
earnings revisions were actually moving
higher. So, the biggest concern that
markets have had over the last couple of
years, which was elevated valuations,
concentration within the tech sector, as
you said, now all of a sudden those
valuations are a lot more compelling.
Add on top of that what we think is
going to be another double-digit
quarter, another double-digit year for
earnings growth both this year and next
year, that's a well-supported
environment for equities. What are you
expecting to see here? And how do you
expect markets to respond to some of the
big tech players coming out saying
they're expanding their spending plans
dramatically, that much more because all
the input and commodities are increasing
in cost at a time when people are
already feeling like we're kind of
getting to a place where you guys are
looking a little bit like telecoms.
Well, you know, it was interesting
because last year anybody who made an
announcement related to AI capital
spending saw a boom in their stock right
away. You know, that was that was the
great stories that everyone wanted to
focus on. Towards the end of last year
and early into this year, particularly
as you started seeing these hyperscalers
turn to debt markets, markets became a
little bit more selective in terms of
their response to to some of these
capital spending stories. I think that's
likely to continue, but the good news is
with earnings revisions moving up,
valuations coming down, perhaps the bar
even after the rally in the last couple
of weeks is a bit more manageable in
terms of how markets are going to react
to some of the spending announcement.
Steve, when it comes back to the war and
how markets are dealing with that, you
say the US is not fully immune to what
is going on. It does feel like we are a
little bit more less vulnerable to the
rest of the world. At what point do you
think the US really would start to feel
the brunt? Yeah, well, when we do a
scenario analysis, and this is one of
the things that we put out in our recent
publication, your base case is that 75
to $80 range. But we also look at a
world in which oil stays here around
$100 a barrel or even perhaps spikes to
140. In the current sort of $100 level,
you take a little bit of a hit to
growth, you see a little bit of a spike
in inflation. That's a bit of a
challenging environment for both stocks
and bonds, but from an economic
perspective, it's something we think you
can manage through. If you see a further
spike, call it $120 to $140 a barrel,
then all of a sudden what is a, you
know, kind of modest growth environment
for now to the end of the year turns
into something that looks more like
potentially a mild recession. But would
that hurt the AI trade?
I don't think it will hurt the AI trade
as much. I mean, you when you look at
the parts of the economy that are most
vulnerable to the higher energy prices,
it's the consumer. It's particularly the
the lower end consumer. I don't think
the momentum that you're seeing in the
the tech story is going to be derailed
by by higher energy prices.
>> Have you got high hopes for an instant
insight in the hearing tomorrow with
Kevin Walsh? No, I mean, I think that
the you're going to see some, you know,
some grandstanding. You're going to see
some push to to resolve the outstanding
investigations. I think what's going to
be more interesting is listening to to
what he has to say about the view on the
Fed and the the balance sheet. Are we
going to see potentially quantitative
tightening as a way to enter uh the
story around on lower rates, but I don't
think we're going to see a lot of that.
>> that's something that's needed? Uh no.
Our view is that right now we're sort of
in a spot where the Fed probably should
remain on hold. Um our view coming into
the year was was one cut. The move
higher in energy prices means that
inflation becomes a bit more of a
concern, but we actually think you're
seeing some signs of stabilization in
the labor market and that allows the Fed
just to kind of sit and watch for a
little while. One big feature of the
rally that we've seen in risk assets has
been utter stability in the rate side of
the picture. And and ultimately this
kind of pairs with the idea these
hearings, at what point can that not
last given the fact that we have drama
that's almost unprecedented in terms of
uh the race for the next Fed chair and
frankly the composition of the board?
No, the interesting thing is the rate
rates have been rather steady in the
longer end of the curve. Shorter term
rates have actually moved a lot, right?
And one of the things that we've been
watching is the shift in expectations
not just for the Fed where markets went
from two to three cuts this year to on
hold. And if you look at other central
banks around the world, they're actually
pricing in, you know, meaningful hikes
over the the back half of this year.
That's where we're finding some more
tactical opportunities within the rates
market, getting clients to think about
moving out of cash into short duration
either Treasuries or investment grade
debt, um given that repricing. At what
point do you think that higher commodity
prices paired with relatively resilient
growth in the United States will lead to
a creeping higher in long-term inflation
expectations, especially if it seems
like a Kevin Warsh Fed, should that
occur and as it will likely occur, uh is
inclined to cut rates and is inclined to
have a more accommodative policy? Yeah,
so we we haven't seen it yet, right? If
you look at the inflation expectations
both in terms of what the market is
pricing as well as survey data, you
know, the the view is that this is a
short-term move and not a longer-term
move. You know, the longer we stay at
potentially $100 plus in oil, the more
you're going to start thinking about
whether or not this is going to turn
into a longer-term question. We're not
there yet. Stephen, it's good to see
you. As always, thanks for dropping by.
Stephen Parker there of JP Morgan
Private Bank. I remember the days when
people were uncomfortable with the
prospect of this guy going for months
and not weeks and it looks like he's
going into month two, maybe month three.
People are relieved that betting markets
now have a little bit more than a 60%
chance of this resolving at the end of
May. I mean, we're in April right now,
if I do remember correctly and if I'm
actually getting my date correct, but it
just it feels like the bar has shifted
and the real cannibalization of the
physical market is making some people
very concerned while people in the
market say, "But look at tech." I lost
track of this year at some point in Q1
because Q1 felt like a decade. Yeah. And
then I've got no idea where we are from
there. And every week right now just
feels like one very long trading day
that starts on a Sunday and ends on a
Friday then starts again on a Sunday and
ends on a Friday. I'm getting that
feeling though from our guests as well.
I'm just saying this, I don't want to
put words in their mouths, but it feels
like everyone is up late on a Sunday
night coming in on Monday saying, "Oh my
goodness, we're going to do this again."
It is a fatigue. war.
>> is real, that's for sure. Let's get you
an update on stories elsewhere this
morning with your Bloomberg brief.
Yohara has more. Hi Yohara. Hi John.
The White House saying Vice President
J.D. Vance is heading to Islamabad
tonight to lead a second round of talks
along with envoys Steve Witkoff and
Jared Kushner. The Iranians are denying
they will participate in those talks
with the US. A 14-day ceasefire is set
to expire tomorrow night.
The Senate Banking Committee holding a
confirmation hearing for Fed Chair
nominee Kevin Warsh tomorrow at 10:00
a.m. Eastern. Warsh's confirmation has
been in doubt with Republican Senator
Tom Tillis vowing to block any Fed
nominations until the DOJ wraps up its
probe into Jay Powell.
And New York City Mayor Zohran Mamdani
saying his plan to charge an annual
surcharge on Uber wealthy owners of
second homes is an important step in his
pledge to raise taxes on the wealthy.
Mamdani is framing the tax drive as a
way to increase affordability and
improve services for average New
Yorkers. That's your Bloomberg brief,
John. Yohara, thanks. You more from
Yohara in about 30 minutes time. Up
next, the morning call is plus we'll
catch up with Saad Waba of I Squared
Capital on how the war in Iran is
intensifying the need for
infrastructure. Live from New York City
this morning. Good morning.
You went from being deeply underweight
just a couple weeks ago to very rapidly
back up to neutral, and that kind of
buying power has really been the fuel
for why we've seen markets move up so
far so fast. I think some of that is now
behind us, which means we're far more
sensitive to incoming news, meaning we
need good news in the Middle East in
order for this to continue. That was
Kamel Mellahi of New Edge Wealth. Not so
much good news over the weekend.
Equities pulling back from all-time
highs, but only a little bit. On the S&P
500, negative by 0.5. On the Nasdaq 100,
down by 0.4. For the Nasdaq Composite,
this from Jim Reid of Deutsche Bank.
13-day winning run. Only four longer
streaks have occurred in the index's
55-year
history. That's how unique this run has
been.
>> Yeah, and this latest 13-day run for the
Nasdaq Composite, the longest going back
to 1992.
At a time where people are saying, "This
is a steal." That actually valuations
have come in to such a degree that this
is this is a screaming cheap buy, even
though a lot of people are raising
concerns about sort of the irrationality
of risk on given the fact that we're
dealing with a potentially a real
stalemate. The Nasdaq 100 right now,
this morning at least, negative by just
0.4%. That's the price action. Let's get
you some morning calls. First up,
KeyBank raising its price target on
Alphabet, calling its cloud momentum
underappreciated.
Your second call from Bank of America
raising its target on Amazon, expecting
first-quarter revenue to exceed
expectations. And your third and final
call from the team at Stifel, raising
its target on AMD, noting strong compute
demand. Turning back to our top story,
the war in Iran. President Donald Trump
threatening to quote "knock out every
single power plant and every single
bridge in Iran if a deal is not
reached." While the war weighs on global
infrastructure, Soukayna Warba of
I-Squared Capital is remaining positive
on the sector, writing quote "The
fundamental need for infrastructure in
this part of the world doesn't disappear
because the environment is difficult. If
anything, it intensifies." Soukayna
joins us now for more. Good morning,
sir. It's good to see you. Thank you.
Thank you very much for being here. So,
in your opinion in your mind, the war of
the last 2 months or so, doesn't upend
infrastructure. It might accelerate it.
Uh unfortunately, in that sense, yes.
So, two things. First, you're going to
get at least $60
probably more in terms of direct
infrastructure damage. The problem is
that's the physical damage, but you have
consequences in addition to that,
meaning it will take you a couple of
years to rebuild some of that
infrastructure.
You'll have to spend on defense. So,
overall, the governments of the GCC have
probably another 100 billion dollars
that they need to spend over the coming
years. What that will do, in my view, is
it will push these governments into
investing in these projects through
direct government intervention and
national oil companies, but then let the
private sector focus on the remaining
infrastructure over the course of the
coming decade. If you look at the share,
for example, in Saudi of non-government
oil, that's about 40%. What's that
number in the US? About 15%. So, that
share of government expenditure needs to
come down anyway over the coming years,
and that I think will be accelerated
because of what has happened.
>> What do you think the key priorities
will be now?
I think there are two key priorities.
One is redundancies, and the other one
is accelerated growth. So, redundancies,
because we've seen that there's too much
concentration in particular areas. So,
for example, 20% of the oil goes through
the Strait of Hormuz.
20% of the LNG goes through the Strait
of Hormuz. So, what the GCC countries
will need to do is to create
redundancies, more pipelines, more
storage facilities. And you're talking
By the way, they're already talking
about that, right? It's not something
that is speculative. What kind of
pipeline do we need to build to remove
that reliance on the Strait of Hormuz?
What kind of storage facilities do we
need to put in? So, you're going to get
a huge boost in investment in that kind
of infrastructure to reduce that
reliance. So, that's one aspect. The
second aspect of it is, if you look at
the non-energy infrastructure, a lot of
it has been concentrated in particular
geographic areas. So, for example, take
data centers.
One of the highest penetrations, by the
way, of mobile phones, fantastic. But,
the digital infrastructure is highly
concentrated in a few hubs. So, few
hubs,
global cloud dependency, fiber optic
comes in particular geographic areas,
which we don't need to mention. So, all
concentrated in those areas. So, that
will have to change over the coming
years. So, one is data center. Another
one is water resources.
67% of the population in the GCC relies
exclusively
on desal water.
And all the desal plants are along that
coast, which is in the Gulf of Persia.
So, you'll need to create a new
infrastructure for water, water reserves
that need to be put in. This is a lot of
money, and it's even more money when you
think about how much the commodity
prices are increasing as a result of all
of this infrastructure build. Where is
the money going to come from? Is it
going to be diverted from other
initiatives that these Middle East
countries are now investing in, whether
it's golf, or whether it's the Premier
League in in in football, or is it going
to be coming from outside investors? I
think it will come primarily from
outside investors. So, take
private equity firm like Ice Square
Capital. We're looking to deploy easily
over $2 billion in the coming years in
the region
in that kind of infrastructure. It could
be in water resources, data centers,
which already doing, renewables.
Renewables penetration in that area is 5
to 7%. US is 20,
world
overall globally, it's about 30%. Europe
is 60%. So, they're way behind in terms
of integrating renewables power into
their system. So, I think you're going
to get a lot of investments.
It should come primarily from foreign
direct investments, private capital, and
that's already happened in the last
couple of years. Do you get the sense
that there is an allegiance in terms of
where the money comes from to go into
some of these projects, the
infrastructure projects? And I say this
at a time where it seems like the world
is kind of fracturing, and there's a
real question about US money going into
the region, or is it Asian money that's
going into the region at a time when
this used to be sort of the new
financial capital that's kind of been
called into question. I mean, do you
have a sense of where the flows are
going to be coming from?
I I think, interestingly, the flows are
going to continue to come from the US
because we are the largest, deepest
capital markets in the world. There's no
doubt about that. Um we tend to be uh
sometimes short-term and forget about
the long-term. Asia tend to be more
longer-term, uh but you have a huge base
of private equity investors in the US
that is looking to invest in the region
and will continue to invest in the
region and are willing to take a
longer-term view. I don't think that was
the case 10 years ago because you've
seen fundamental changes in the region
notwithstanding the war.
But But sorry, but Asia capital, your
point, I think it's going to be very
aggressive, like it has been in Latin
America, like it has been in Europe uh
through Belt and Road, through other
mechanisms that China has developed,
absolutely.
>> Sometimes there's a habit to talk about
the region as a monolith, but it's not.
Who's hit the hardest right now? Is it
Bahrain and Kuwait? Are they going to
need the most money? The The truth is,
the the people think of these as
different countries, which of course
they are, but they all rely on that
energy infrastructure, which has been
hit. Um
that, I think, will need to be rebuilt
very quickly. Some of it will take
years, as I said, because I I'll give
you an example. Uh today I want to buy
to build in the US a power plant.
We have huge needs for power plants,
right? Because of data centers.
For me to order a turbine
from Siemens, Mitsubishi, GE, 5 to 7
years.
So, think about that region where they
have to rebuild. It's not as much as the
cost, is the as much as the time that's
going by. So, they will have to wait
quite a bit to be able to rebuild that.
So, it's honestly across all of the
energy sector,
what has been most hit is of course
anything that has to do with the US. So,
US bases, where US activities occurred,
that was hit.
What about the trillions of dollars
these countries have pledged to invest
into the United States after the
president made that huge foreign policy
trip last year?
Yes, I was actually part of that trip
with President Trump.
I I think those investments will happen,
but maybe will happen over a longer
period of time than expected. Let's put
it that way. That's what I heard. I
heard all those investments are now
getting kicked down the road.
Just kick the can, but for the president
of the United States, this was a huge
foreign policy win. Yes, you see
there's an irony to that.
I think those economies are willing to
invest in the US. The question is in
what sector?
And are we able do we have the mechanism
to take on those investments? So, it's
easy to invest in the stock market, it's
much more difficult to invest in a
multi-billion dollar pipeline that needs
to be built. So,
ironically is the availability of
projects in the US that is the
challenge. The permitting, the
regulatory frameworks, all that is
effectively slowing down the ability to
absorb that kind of capital.
>> Lisa tries to ask the question, do you
think the Saudis will stick with LIV
Golf?
Have you got an opinion on that, sir?
None, but I think they will stick, yes.
So, I appreciate your time. Thank you,
sir. Thank you very much. So, well done.
I squared capital. You went there, I
didn't go there.
>> I know, I did But, was like sort of you
know, alluding to this cuz it's sort of
some of the places that money has gone,
and I know that you're kind of hoping
one way or another in that particular
area.
>> don't think they stick with LIV Golf. I
think they wait until after the next
tournament wraps up cuz it's going to be
at Trump National in Washington, D.C.
>> Okay. There we go. Getting some
headlines from Kevin Hassett, the NEC
director. He's reflecting on that Wall
Street Journal piece about a swap line
for the UAE. Kevin Hassett calling the
UAE a valuable ally. The best it would
help if needed, but ultimately a UAE FX
swap line probably won't be necessary.
Yeah, this is going to be a delicate
dance as some of the relationships in
the Middle East are fought for. I mean,
the idea that Asia right now, in
particular China, is being really
aggressive in the region highlights the
need for extreme diplomacy and the
desire among some company countries to
be courted. Well, swap lines usually
happen through the Federal Reserve, and
there's traditional ones like Canada,
Japan, the UK. But, last year the
Treasury Secretary did a swap line
through Treasury, and it's through
Argentina. So, if there were to see one,
it would probably be best in similar to
what we saw in Argentina. But, I also
agree with Kevin Hassett. I don't really
think the UAE needs one. That's the
latest from Kevin Hassett, the NEC
director, speaking to the press just
moments ago. Coming up on this program,
we'll catch up with Isabelle Mateus
Salgado of BNP Paribas looking ahead to
tomorrow's confirmation hearing with the
Fed, potentially the next Fed chair,
Kevin Warsh. That conversation just
around the corner. From New York City,
you're watching Bloomberg TV.
At the open about about 60 minutes away,
a record-breaking run of this equity
market on the S&P, five days of gains on
the S&P 500, 13 on the Nasdaq 100. This
is the very, very small pullback this
morning relative to a major bounce over
the last two or three weeks. On the S&P,
three consecutive weeks of 3% plus gains
on the S&P 500. We're declining by just
0.4%
following a weekend full of chaos and
confusion.
>> Yeah, if you just woke up after being in
a coma and suddenly you look at the fact
that the US was going and physically
attacking a ship and boarding it for
that was Iranian and that the streets
now closed and there are questions
around whether the talks will actually
take place tomorrow. You'd think that
oil would be up much more. You would
think that stocks would be down much
more. But at the same time, people have
gotten used to this. This is our Sunday
night drama and so people say, "Okay, we
kind of have gotten the story. This is
going to get resolved one way or
another. We're moving on." How do you
get an edge at a time in an untradable
market in terms of headlines? You focus
on something else and that is right now
what the market is doing.
>> And it definitely feels like this market
is really holding on to the idea that
the ceasefire either will be extended or
those peace talks will the second round
will actually happen tomorrow in
Islamabad. Right now, the White House is
planning to send the Vice President
Steve Biegun and Jared Kushner. But we
have not had clarity or confirmation on
the Iranian side. So potentially we
could see some serious escalation next
24 hours, but the market at the moment
doesn't really seem to be pricing that
in.
>> Like Lisa said, we've seen this movie
before. Another Monday morning that
started on Sunday evening and a Monday
morning full of fatigue and exhaustion.
>> And so people are just saying, "Look,
you've done this every single night." I
feel like it's like a parent talking to
a young kid. It's like, you know, you
say this every night, "You're not going
to go to school the next morning."
You're going to go to school. And so at
a certain point, people just sort of
move on. This does feel slightly
different because the physical world is
being disrupted and ultimately at what
point do we start to see that in the
data? We're going to be getting some ISM
data later this week, the PMI data
rather not the ISM data coming out. Do
we get a sense of a slowdown in business
sentiment in particular in certain
regions as a result?
>> football team lost, I did ask for the
day off. That's what I'd ask for.
Really? Yes, if the team lost, yeah.
>> Okay, but that was a consistent, right?
Sometimes it was granted. Your team did
Your did Your team did lose this year.
Well, I'm not 10 anymore. So no, I'm not
I'm not getting days off. I hope my kids
aren't listening. Please don't listen to
that. You're absolutely not getting the
day off if the Mets lose because the
Mets lose every single time. Then they
get the day off.
>> last Okay, you know the last time the
Yankees lost what the Mets are dealing
with right now, 10 games, was 1913.
Embarrassing. Where'd you find that
stat? Someone on Twitter posted it and
DraftKings. And then I did my own
research and it's accurate. I'm leaving.
Stay with us, Danni. 28 more minutes to
go as we count exactly the opening
balance. Get you some single names, some
morning movers. Danni Burger has more.
Hey, Danni. Hey, John. Some deal news
this morning. USA Rare Earths is going
to be buying a Brazilian mining company
called Salsa Verde for $2.8 billion.
Shares of USA Rare Earths now up 8 and
1/2%, which is usually rare for the
acquirer, but it just shows a lot of
these American mineral and rare earth
companies are looking to try to build up
their stock piles and lesser a reliance
on China. Elsewhere, a satellite
company, AST Space Mobile, they had a
satellite that was aboard a Blue Origin
rocket that was launched over the
weekend. It was supposed to enter an
orbit, but something went wrong. It
basically detached from the rocket, but
didn't enter the right orbit. In other
words, the satellite was lost. It's
going to come back down into the earth.
It's going to burn up in the atmosphere.
So, those shares down 13%. Finally,
another little bit of deal news is
coming from the information that Marvell
will be buying two be building two
distinct TPUs for Alphabet. One will be
to accompany their own. Another one will
be a separate one to run AI functions.
Either way, it's just going to be
purpose-built for Google. So, those
shares up 5 and 3/4% Google slightly
lower this morning, John. Hey, Danni,
thank you. Thanks for the update. More
from Danni alongside Matt Miller in
about 25 minutes time. Let's go to the
calendar. Tomorrow, Kevin Warsh set to
face Capital Hill. Investors listening
for any clues on where the Fed chair
nominee stands on interest rates. Mike
McKee has a preview now and he joins us
for more. Good morning, Mike. Good
morning, Joe. Well, it's important to
recognize this is just a step along the
way for Kevin Warsh because Senator
Tellis is still determined not to vote
one way or another until the
administration drops the probe into Jay
Powell and the Fed's remodeling. So,
uh it has some interest for the markets,
but it's not going to tell us much about
where we end up. Now, the questions for
Warsh, the first and most important one,
who does he work for? Does he work for
the president and do what the president
wants about interest rates? He will say
no, but the question is how he will say
no. Uh then, if he's still interested in
rate cuts though, when and how much?
That's going to be a major topic for
people in the markets who think that the
Fed is going to be cutting rates by the
end of the year. The balance sheet, how
small uh does he want it to be? Will
they sell off mortgage bonds? He's
suggested that they might want to do
that. That could be very complicated.
Also, does he want to go back to scarce
reserves? And then, communications. He
thinks the Fed talks too much and it
would be better if, especially, the Fed
bank presidents didn't speak as much
about what their forecasts are because
he doesn't believe uh in the idea of
forward guidance working very well. Uh
we also have, as you were just talking
about, some important economic data this
week also coming tomorrow. The biggest
numbers of the week, retail sales. Are
Americans hanging in there? We're going
to see a big jump in retail sales
because of gasoline prices. Retail sales
denominated in dollars, so it may may or
may not tell us a whole lot. Uh there
isn't much else this week. Thursday,
jobless claims, but those PMIs that Lisa
was talking about will give us some
indication of where we are because they
are April data, preliminary data. So,
it'll be interesting to see. The
forecasts are that they go up a little
bit. Uh and then, we'll be looking at
Michigan sentiment on Friday. And of
course, that's the inflation
expectations number that everybody's
been watching all week long, the Fed
blackout. So, uh we won't have any Fed
comment except for this, tomorrow
afternoon
uh
Chris Waller is speaking about how he
sees the Fed changing in the future. And
that will be sort of at the same time as
uh
Kevin Warsh. So, maybe we'll have
dueling views of the Fed's outlook going
forward.
>> So, Mike, how does Kevin How How does
Chris Waller do that, the governor of
the Federal Reserve? Does he ignore
current monetary policy and just focus
on communication and those kind of
things? Yes. He can't talk about
monetary policy, but maybe he's talking
about bank regulation, maybe he's
talking about communications policy. He
could even be talking about the balance
sheet and scarce reserve versus ample
reserves
uh just as long as he doesn't talk about
interest rates. And we can Mike, thank
you. Thanks for breaking it down. Mike
McKee there with a preview of everything
coming from the Federal Reserve. He
mentioned the PMIs. You're right too,
soft data has been okay. In fact, in
many cases better than okay. Yeah, the
global PMIs are going to be really
interesting for April because we might
see that things are okay in the United
States. But if you're talking about jet
fuel potentially running out in Europe
in
5 weeks, things are not okay. And
flights already getting canceled, does
that start to show up some of that data
in those PMIs?
>> Let's build on some of these themes.
Isabelle Mateus Lago of BNP Paribas
writes in the following, "Markets will
be on the lookout for hints of Warsh's
policy reaction as well as elaboration
of his plans for Fed reform. But it's
possible we get little on either topic
given all of the other issues in the uh
I'm pleased to say that Isabelle joins
us in the studio. Isabelle, good
morning. Good to see you.
>> Good morning.
>> What's the best we can hope for tomorrow
in that hearing? Oh, the best we can
hope for is a
standard grilling about, you know, what
does Kevin Warsh mean by we need regime
change at the Fed?
Uh how should the Fed respond to this
stagflationary shock? And what does he
have in mind for the balance sheet? And
what do you expect? Well, I expect there
will be other issues creating some
noise, but uh but I think it would be,
you know, this this Senate confirmation
process is a very important part of the
of the process for getting it right at
the at the Fed and I I and I'm sure a
lot of senators in fact most senators
involved will want to make sure that
they that they go through the through
the full due process and I'm sure Kevin
Warsh himself or for his own sake
and will want to will want to address
these policy issues rather than the the
political noise
around this. Right now even some of the
more dovish Fed members have expressed
hesitation from cutting rates anytime
soon given the inflationary shock. There
had been discussions about even rate
hikes not so long ago. Do you think that
the prospect of central bankers acting
overly hawkish in the face of this oil
price shock that that sort of faded away
a bit in terms of likelihood both in the
US as well as in Europe? Yeah, so one
thing that struck me out of all the
pronouncements made at the
IMF spring meetings last week by central
bankers is how
humble in a way they all were in
accepting that we don't know where this
is going this being the situation in the
Gulf and therefore the situation with
energy prices and we don't know how the
economy will react. Let therefore let's
really wait and see and not rush into
action. So I think whereas initially
there was a fear and you saw this in
market pricing that certainly Bank of
England ECB might go in a very hawkish
direction. I think they've they've
pulled this back and the Fed
interestingly has gone a little bit in
the other direction. I mean obviously
the
the the FOMC members who were hawkish to
to begin with like Austin Goolsbee have
you know stayed hawkish but very
interesting I thought the speech by
Governor Waller
where he set out that look this is not
just another
supply shock. This is one in many in a
succession of supply shocks and we need
to be we need to be cautious. So I I
really
saw a combination of patience and
vigilance and that seems to me exactly
right.
And we have to see how events pan out in
the Gulf.
>> It does seem
a little bit like we're dancing on the
head of a pin. Because on one hand
growth and just the acceleration you're
seeing from corporations seems to be
holding in. At the same time that
commodity prices are fundamentally and
structurally potentially higher going
forward. And yet people are expecting
inflation to go back to where it is
without necessarily the hikes from
central bankers around the world that
they previously had been
thinking about. So can you square this
this this circle with a peg in the
middle?
So no, I can't. But what's really
interesting is again, when you talk to
central bankers, they're like, "Okay, we
have our models and the models, you
know, probably suggest that there will
be some degree of second round effects.
On the other hand, we have no faith in
our elasticities in our model. And, you
know, this is not 2022. The economy is
not overheating to begin with. Monetary
policy is not overly accommodative. So
we're in a different place. And let's
see how this pans out. Having said all
that, I think
it's very clear there's a lot of
resilience in the economy. And an
economy that's resilient may well end up
generating more second round effects
that that you would like or that central
banks would be comfortable ignoring. So
I think they're going to try to wait and
see as long as possible. But the minute
we start to see
some pass-through, some inflection in
wage setting. So the the the the the
PMIs are going to be important for the
extent to which we see an impact on
activity.
I'm not sure we're going to see much of
a slowdown yet.
But also the extent to which you see a
pass-through from input prices to output
prices. We didn't see that in the March
PMIs.
Let's see what what happens this time. I
think that's going to be really
important.
>> How much more insulated is the Federal
Reserve to deal with this than say the
European Central Bank?
Well, it's not insulated. I mean, if
anything Well, we're a net energy
exporter. That's what I mean. Yeah, but
that doesn't help deal with the energy
with the inflation Uh
angle. It It helps cushion the shock on
on growth. Maybe that's also an issue
for for debate because frankly
the entire economy, the entire set of
consumers are being hit now. And yes,
being an energy exporter might help if
you start seeing more investment in
energy production and you're beginning
to see that, but the the timelines are
not are not the same. But inflation
shock is exactly similar. Um now, you
know, um
Fed rate is is, you know, either
moderately restrictive or kind of around
around neutral. So again, this gives
them time to to to wait and see, but the
labor market is in balance and you know,
the economy is not weak by any stretch
of the imagination. So I think the Fed
has to be cautious and that's what we
heard from Governor Waller and others
last week. I'm looking forward to
hearing from Mr. Waller himself tomorrow
in that hearing. Ismael, good to see
you. Thanks for being here. Thank you
very much. Ismael Mateus there of BNP
Paribas. Let's get you an update on
stories worldwide this morning with your
Bloomberg Brief. I'm pleased to say
Yahara is with us for more. Hi Yahara.
Hi John.
President Donald Trump renewing his
threat to attack civilian infrastructure
in Iran. In a Truth Social post, the
president vowed to quote "knock out
every single power plant and every
single bridge if Tehran does not accept
a US deal."
Meta is planning to lay off around 10%
of its global workforce in late May.
Reuters is reporting the company is also
planning further cuts in the second half
of the year. The move could help Meta
offset some of its massive spending on
AI infrastructure.
And in sports, the NBA playoffs are
underway with the Orlando Magic
upsetting the Detroit Pistons in game
one. The top overall seed Oklahoma City
Thunder beating the Phoenix Suns while
the Boston Celtics taking down the
Philadelphia 76ers. That's your
Bloomberg Brief, John. Yahara, thank
Thank Thank you for this morning. Up
next on the program, we'll set you up
for the day ahead. Plus, we'll catch up
with Mike Contopoulos of Janus
Henderson. With investors looking at
stocks falling slightly and pulling back
from all-time highs going into the
opening bell, about 47 minutes away.
From New York City this morning, good
morning. You're watching Bloomberg TV.
I think the noise um got too loud in
terms of how bad it's going to be for
software. I've been kind of honing in on
this narrative of it is the late '90s,
but it's the 1890s when we're building
the railroads and it's that big. And I
think that narrative has come back to
the markets and that's what the market
took advantage of. That was Mike Lehman
there of Citizens Commercial Bank
weighing in on the pretty epic rally for
tech stocks. We've talked about the
software sector a few times this
morning. The best week since 2001.
Microsoft with the best week in a decade
plus. Some big moves going into earnings
next week. Equity futures this morning
erasing the losses as we get closer and
closer to the cash open. we're down
just a third of 1% now on the S&P. It
seems like in overnight trading things
are oh no, maybe this is something we
should react to. And then as the morning
gets closer to the US open people say,
but what about the tech names because
they're doing great and so is everybody
else. It seems like everyone is looking
to what they can analyze and that has
been earnings coming out of all of the
big companies. And frankly, we're seeing
IPOs announced. Jersey Side Jersey
Mike's actually uh filed confidentially
for an IPO. We're seeing mergers and
acquisitions. We're seeing high yield
bond deals getting announced. This is
the capital markets that really uh just
doesn't want to hear more about the
state of the markets.
>> It was an agreement getting done with
Adobe teaming up with Microsoft and
Anthropic open AI and video. That just
crossed in from the Wall Street Journal.
All these kind of things. That story
continues.
>> Yeah, there's plenty of money out there
and their capital markets are wide open
and that enthusiasm for a technological
revolution right now is triumphing over
the what-ifs as you do see the fiscal
markets brought to a complete halt with
this crucial waterway completely
shuttered right now.
>> It's up in the pre-market high by some
4% as we count down to the opening bell.
A few things to look out for over the
coming days. Tomorrow, US-Iran talks
could be on the schedule. They're
possible. Let's see if they actually
happen or not. Also, a Kevin Warsh
hearing in front of the Senate Banking
Committee taking place tomorrow. So,
look out for that, too. As we work our
way through the week, we'll get some
earnings and some data. Retail sales
data coming up as well. United numbers,
too, plus results from Tesla and IBM.
You're pretty focused on the airlines,
aren't you, for the week? To me, they
are the key economic indicator, the
real-time sense of just what the
physical shortages are as well as just
how much consumers are willing to pay up
for our prices given the fact that they
have to compensate for the higher
gasoline prices. How devoted are you to
go to the south of Italy for summer?
Very.
And who cares? But not this year. Okay,
good luck. But if you get stuck there,
the issue isn't getting there. It's it's
Europe.
>> I am not too bothered about getting
stuck there, to be honest with you. You
know, pretty committed to that.
You know? Anyway, but not this year.
We'll talk about that another time, all
right? Let's talk about corporate
earnings boosting sentiment. The outlook
for earnings pretty solid. S&P 500
companies reporting so far have seen
profits come in 11% above expectations.
Mike Contopoulos of Janus Henderson
writes in the following, "Earnings
continue to be strong globally
reinforcing that before the war the
economy was in a good place." Mike joins
us now for more. Mike, good morning.
Good morning. Congratulations, as well,
on the recent combination. It's good to
see you under the Janus Henderson tent
now. Let's talk about the outlook. Is
the outlook for earnings still good
following this war? It's so so far,
yeah. So far the outlook does look
pretty good. I mean, we haven't really
seen yet any sort of collapse in
in earnings expectations. You know,
estimate revision ratios still remain
reasonably strong. And this isn't just a
US phenomenon. It's a global phenomenon.
I mean, emerging markets continues to
look good from an earnings perspective
for now.
Listen, we don't have enough data yet to
know what's going to happen in Q2 and Q3
and beyond. And I think much of that
will depend on how long oil prices stay
high for and how that affects margins
and ultimate ultimately consumption. But
we came into the Iranian war in a really
really healthy spot. And I think that's
what we're starting to see as earnings
are rolling in for Q1. When we say the
outlook for earnings are good, are we
talking about a handful of companies?
You mentioned EM. You go through the
list of EM equities in the MSCI index
and it's just Samsung, Taiwan Semi, SK
Hynix, Tencent, Alibaba. Is it more than
just tech?
Well, you just named like six or seven
companies, but uh Which make up probably
a quarter of the index.
>> They do. I mean, obviously there's huge
concentration in Taiwan, South Korea,
and and even in the China, you know,
markets. But yeah, I mean, you're
starting to see a bit of a broadening.
And I would argue that, you know,
although oil higher oil prices may hurt
emerging markets and nat gas prices and
higher oil prices, European companies,
of course, you know, commodity oriented
companies in emerging markets should do
quite well in this environment. I think
will ultimately prove to do pretty well
over the longer term.
Um
Yeah, but there's a broadening, you
know, and broadening just doesn't mean
outside of US tech. It does mean
globally, even if it means technology
globally with again South Korea and
Taiwan being kind of two of the key
drivers there on the tech side. But
yeah, there's a broadening. There's a
broadening happening across markets.
Yeah, it was a broadening based on
growth and based on this commodity cycle
that we seem to be facing off with. And
I'm going to trigger a bunch of people
out there, but it kind of draws into
question 60/40 composition given the
fact that ultimately you're going to be
dealing with an inflationary push coming
from the commodity side of things. Do
you think right now
certain equities are better hedge than
just full faith in credit government
bonds?
So, not because um of any sort of
default risk or anything on the on the
US government bond side. Um but
certainly as inflation goes up, you're
going to have higher interest rates. And
I do think that we're going to be in an
environment where it's going to be
difficult outside of a recession to get
below 4% on the 10-year and stay there.
In fact, the longer stronger growth and
inflation remains, I think you're
probably going to trend more towards 5%.
In that world, you know, energy and uh
industrials, uh value, dividend-paying
companies are all going to perform quite
well. They'll do well in an environment
where, you know, duration is getting
hurt. But doesn't mean you have to avoid
fixed income.
I think it just means that you have to
change how you invest in fixed income.
So you have to own more floating rate
debt, you have to own uh shorter
duration. So think like securitized
products, CLOs, think floating rate
Treasuries or short duration corporates,
things of those natures. I think that's
going to do quite well in that
environment. So this is actually is a
really interesting point that we were
speaking with Morgan Stanley about
earlier. This idea that high yield might
look okay, actually much better than
investment-grade as a haven play because
investment-grade is also pegged to
duration as well as, you know, just
doesn't offer the same kind of cushion
against that inflationary risk. Do you
agree with that? So uh theoretically,
that sounds great. You know, certainly
if you all you cared about was the
duration side, I'd say sure. But the
path to hell is paved with carry and
credit. And uh you got basically no no
carry in in uh in corporates at the
moment. And so why bother with high
yield at, you know, 250 to 350 over?
I'll just make a big range there cuz
that's kind of where it's been over the
last, you know, several months. When I
can go and buy, you know, mortgages, I
can buy AAA CLOs, I can buy,
you know, longer duration munis, which I
know that has the longer duration aspect
to it, but in a balanced portfolio where
the overall duration is low, at least
you're picking up some spread and yield
there as well.
>> Tomorrow we'll spend a lot of time on
Kevin Walsh's hearing on Capitol Hill.
How relevant is this Fed to your outlook
at the moment? So uh you know, we try to
navigate the noise, so to speak, and and
not pay too much attention to what's
going on politically, which I view part
of this um theater as being somewhat
political.
Um
the end of the day, it depends on what
the committee is going to do, not what
what Warsh is going to do. And if the
Fed cuts interest rates in an
environment where inflation is probably
trending towards 4% and growth is
reasonably strong, you're going to see
significantly higher interest rates, and
it's going to defeat the the purpose of
what the administration ultimately
wants. Uh the bond vigilantes will come
out, they'll start to punish the bond
market, you'll see huge selling, and
that's when you get to 5%. If the Fed
keeps rates where it is,
uh or even hikes, which I think is
entirely a possibility as we get later
into this year and into 2027, that's
when actually you slow growth and
inflation, that's when rates fall. So,
it's it's flips sort of the argument on
its head, and then it seems like that
the the administration is missing that
point, but I don't think uh the Federal
Reserve will miss that point.
>> bomb at the end there. You think it's
possible late to this year?
Oh, yeah. Yeah, for sure. I mean,
listen, if if let's say oil were to
settle in that 70 to 80 range, something
like that, and uh not slow growth too
much, but contribute to inflation, and
earnings growth remains robust, and the
economy kind of, you know, hums along,
absolutely, why not? Mike, it's good to
see you.
>> Great to see you as well.
>> Thanks for dropping by. Michael
Antonelli there of Janus Henderson
Investors on the potential for a rate
hike late to this year.
>> Yeah, this is something that other
economists have pointed out as well. The
idea that the worst-case scenario for
the Fed is 80 to $100 a barrel, because
that wouldn't slow growth so much that
you would have sort of the natural
tamping down of inflation, but you would
have those inputs that would be
increasing at a time where we still have
not gotten down to 2% for more than 5
years. I mean, I just keep going back to
that. You know, where we're starting is
also in a more inflationary moment.
>> to communicate this to Maria politician,
but if you want lower interest rates,
don't push for lower interest rates is
usually the best way of getting lower
interest rates.
Doesn't work. That's not a good pundit
talking point. And honestly, on
Instagram, that really just wouldn't
fly, John.
You know? It just He uses truth right
there on Instagram.
>> They want to clip those little videos.
>> Yeah, exactly. We're going to be like,
"If you want to hike, you you lower
leg." It doesn't really work.
>> Coming up tomorrow, Chris Varone of
Strategas, Andrew Sheets of Morgan
Stanley, Savita Subramanian of Bank of
America, and Dana Peterson at the
Conference Board. From New York City
this morning, good morning. Thank you
for choosing Bloomberg TV. This was
Bloomberg Surveillance.